A Far-Reaching Parental Love? Co-Governance of
Intergenerational Succession and Innovation
Activities in Chinese Family Firms
Zhenduo Zhu1 and Yuanfei Kang2
1Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, China, and
2Massey University, New Zealand
ABSTRACT
Motivated by the research gap on intergenerational succession dynamics of
family firms, this study examines the effects of initiating intergenerational succession on
firms’ innovation activities. We propose that initiation of intra-family succession can result
in founder–successor co-governance that represents a strategic transition to the succession
and incorporates the two conflicting yet complementary directions of change and
continuity. Grounded in the theory of altruism, we suggest that co-governance will
positively affect firms’ innovation activities and that this positive link is contingent on the
idiosyncratic intra-family relationships of kinship type, age difference, and
gender difference between the founder and the successor. Furthermore, we posit that
co-governance will lead to a flow of resources to low risk, rather than more inventive but
higher risk, innovations. Based on the unbalanced panel data of 4,694 firm-year
observations in our sample from listed Chinese family firms during the 2006–2015 period,
empirical analysis supports our hypotheses and confirms that when examining family firms’
innovation, there is a need to take the heterogeneity of the intra-family governance
structure more fully into consideration.
KEYWORDS altruism, co-governance, innovation, intergenerational succession
ACCEPTED BY Deputy Editor Peter Ping Li
INTRODUCTION
Intergenerational succession has long been a significant topic in family firm
research (Dyer & Sánchez, 1998; Garcia, Sharma, De Massis, Wright, &
Scholes, 2019; Gilding, Gregory, & Cosson, 2015; Le Breton-Miller, Miller, &
Steier, 2004; Shi, Graves, & Barbera, 2019), as a smooth succession plays a
crucial role in the sustainable growth of family firms. The succession issue is espe-
cially important for family firms in China, because first-generation entrepreneurs
as the family firm founders and owners, who emerged in the process of China’s
opening up and economic reform, are increasingly reaching an advanced age
Corresponding author: Yuanfei Kang (y.kang@massey.ac.nz)
Management and Organization Review 18:2, April 2022, 358–394
doi: 10.1017/mor.2021.45
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

and the family firms they created are facing an urgent need for intergenerational
succession. Moreover, intergenerational succession is even more difficult for first-
generation family firms, as these firms have a strong dependence on the founders
in terms of governance capability, business network relationships, and entrepre-
neurial spirit, for their sustainable growth and development.
Prior research on intergenerational succession mainly focuses on the choice of
succession model between intra-family succession and introduction of external pro-
fessional executives, as well as on the motivating factors and outcomes of such
choices (Gilding et al., 2015; Lambrecht, 2005; Michel & Kammerlander, 2015;
Schulze, Lubatkin, & Dino, 2003a). Although important insights have been
derived from existing research to explain succession in family firms, significant
gaps still remain. First, existing research on Chinese family firm succession tends
to take some individual events, such as the successor’s entry to the top management
team (TMT) or taking over the top position of the firm, as signifying succession,
thus resulting in neglect of important succession dynamics in the transitional
period when the founder and successor jointly take charge of the firm (Zhao,
Carney, Zhang, & Zhu, 2020). However, as a continuous process, intergenera-
tional succession runs through the whole transitional period, through which
governance and managerial power incrementally shift to the successor (Hauck &
Prügl, 2015). Treating intergenerational succession as a single event would
conceal the dynamic features of strategic changes such as innovation activities
during the succession process. While intra-family succession represents a main-
stream mode, inclusion of both the founder and successor in the TMT is a
common phenomenon in intergenerational succession as a transitional governance
structure (Dou & Li, 2013; Zhao et al., 2020). Building on these prior studies, we
conceptualize the inclusion of both the incumbent and successor in the TMT as the
co-governance of the family firm and define it as a governance structure in which
both the founder and successor generations of the owning family take key positions
in the governing body and/or TMT, signifying the transitional process for interge-
nerational succession.
Second, results from prior studies examining the relationship between inter-
generational succession and innovation have been inconclusive and inconsistent
(De Massis, Di Minin, & Frattini, 2015; Richards, Kammerlander, & Zellweger,
2019). On the one hand, intergenerational succession represents a long-term orien-
tation of family firms, which fosters innovation because innovation is associated
with long-term growth and survival (Chrisman & Patel, 2012; Kraiczy, Hack, &
Kellermanns, 2015; Laforet, 2013). On the other hand, the risk aversion tendency
due to the desire to preserve the family legacy and tradition during intergenera-
tional succession deters family firms from innovation given the involved risk
(Block, 2012; Gomez-Mejia, Neacsu, & Martin, 2019; Miller & Le Breton-
Miller, 2014). The inconsistent views demonstrate the heterogeneous nature of
family firm innovation and indicate that there is a hidden link between intergenera-
tional succession and innovation of family firms, resulting in a call for research to
359
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

identify the drivers and mechanisms for heterogeneity (Chrisman & Patel, 2012;
Diaz-Moriana, Clinton, Kammerlander, Lumpkin, & Craig, 2020).
Responding to this call, our study aims to address existing research gaps by
examining the research question of how intergenerational co-governance during
the succession process influences firms’ innovation activities. Intergenerational suc-
cession is structured as a staged process (Le Breton-Miller et al., 2004; Zhao et al.,
2020) in which a potential successor is groomed and gradually integrated into top
management until attaining a full leadership role. The governance team of family
firms in China is characterized as an inner circle that includes spouses, siblings,
children, and trusted nonfamily members (Chung & Luo, 2008). The succession
process starts when a next-generational family member, typically the only child
in contemporary China, takes one of the key positions in the firm (Cao,
Cumming, & Wang, 2015). Based on progress made in the succession process,
co-governance includes two stages, with the older generation taking the leading
role in the first stage and the successor generation taking the leading role in the
second stage, respectively. This study focuses on co-governance as a whole
process by including both stages.
The Chinese saying that ‘the true love of parents would be far-reaching’
describes the unselfish love for their children and suggests that parental care will
be far-sighted. Reflecting this parental altruistic behavior, intergenerational succes-
sion of the family firm can provide the impetus for significant strategic changes
(Zhao et al., 2020) to pave the way for succession with a long-term orientation.
As one of the major strategic changes, co-governance may emerge as the transi-
tional governance structure during the succession process and, in turn, co-govern-
ance is likely to lead to major changes in the firm’s business strategies, especially in
innovation. This is because innovation represents an investment in future growth
(Coad & Rao, 2011; Diaz-Moriana et al., 2020; Duran, Kammerlander, Van
Essen, & Zellweger, 2016) by establishing sustainable competitive advantage of
the firm (Gomez-Mejia, Campbell, Martin, Hoskisson, Makri, & Sirmon 2014;
Lumpkin & Brigham, 2011; Miller & Le Breton-Miller, 2014). Innovation is
even more important for Chinese family firms, as they are operating in an
economy that is undergoing a dramatic process of economic transformation and
industrial advancement. Our study examines innovation activities of family firms
from the aspect of ‘far-sightedness’, which refers to long-term orientation of innov-
ation activities for the future development of the firm. Adopting altruism as the
theoretical approach and based on empirical data of Chinese family firms listed
in Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges during the ten-year period of
2006–2015, our study examines the influence of co-governance in family firms
on their innovation activities and the moderating effects of factors drawn from
the altruism approach on the direct relationship between co-governance and
innovation activities.
Our study contributes to the literature in two ways. First, the primary theor-
etical contribution of the study lies in providing an alternative explanation for the
360
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

hidden link between intergeneration succession and innovation by focusing on the
effect of co-governance on innovation. Prior research suggests that succession pre-
sents a pivotal time period for renewal and strategic changes of family firms
(Cucculelli, Le Breton-Miller, & Miller, 2016; De Massis, Chua, & Chrisman,
2008; Zhao et al., 2020) and that there is greater variability in innovation invest-
ment in family firms than in nonfamily firms, depending on situational and con-
textual factors (Roed, 2016). Extending this line of research, we propose co-
governance as a major situational factor that affects innovation activities of
family firms, shedding light on the change-continuity paradox during intergenera-
tional succession of innovation in family firms (Rondi, De Massis, & Kotlar, 2019;
Zhao et al., 2020). To our knowledge, our study is the first to conceptualize co-gov-
ernance as a governance structure of family firms and empirically examine its influ-
ence on strategic management in terms of innovation activities of family firms.
Second, by conceptualizing co-governance as a governance structure during
the succession process and empirically testing its direct effect on innovation, our
study reveals the unique role of co-governance as a novel mechanism to facilitate
innovation, thus enriching family firm research. Furthermore, following the altru-
ism approach, we draw on factors of kinship relationship, age difference, and
gender difference on the basis that they are reflective of heterogeneity in interge-
nerational family relationships. By examining the moderating effects of these
factors on altruistic behavior occurring in the succession process, our study
addresses the important issue of how different intra-family relationships influence
innovation through moderating the direct link between co-governance and innov-
ation of the family firm. Our empirical results show that these factors can act as
contingent conditions to moderate the influence of co-governance on innovation.
Furthermore, our results suggest that co-governance results in a risk-based differ-
entiation of innovation activities, that is, resources flow to low risk, rather than high
risk but more inventive, innovations.
THEORETICAL BACKGROUND AND HYPOTHESES
DEVELOPMENT
Intergenerational Succession, Co-Governance, and Innovation
As an organizational form with a dual-system structure, family firms integrate
socio-emotional wealth and business efficiency (Berrone, Cruz, & Gomez-Mejia,
2012; Gómez-Mejía, Haynes, Núñez-Nickel, Jacobson, & Moyano-Fuentes,
2007). Accordingly, governance and decision-making in family firms tend to
adopt a hierarchical structure and also involve family ethics (Schulze et al.,
2003a). To examine organizational behavior and decision-making patterns of
family firms, prior research has adopted various theoretical approaches, such as
agency theory (Block, 2012; Morck & Yeung, 2003), stewardship theory (Miller
& Le Breton-Miller, 2006), the institution-based view (Peng, Sun, Vlas,
361
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Minichilli, & Corbetta, 2018), or the resource-based view of the firm (Habbershon,
Williams, & MacMillan, 2003). However, these theoretical approaches were devel-
oped to examine organizational behavior where economic instrumentality is
assumed, and thus fail to adequately deal with the uniqueness of family firms
(Berrone et al., 2012). Thus, there have been explicit calls for the development
of theories that are more specific to family firms (Hauck, Suess-Reyes, Beck,
Prügl, & Frank, 2016; Zellweger, Kellermanns, Chrisman, & Chua, 2012).
To examine the parental altruistic behavior demonstrated in the process of
intergenerational succession, our study adopts altruism as the theoretical approach
to address the research question of how intergenerational co-governance influences
innovation activities. Affection – feelings and emotions – is a branch of family firm
research that deserves more attention (Baron, 2008; Morgan & Gomez-Mejia,
2014). From a philosophical perspective, altruism refers to a motivational state
with the goal of increasing another’s welfare without expectation of a reward in
return (Darity, 2008; van Aaken, Rost, & Seidl, 2017). In particular, altruism in
economics is considered a practical function that connects the welfare of one indi-
vidual to that of others (Karra, Tracey, & Phillips, 2006; Schulze et al., 2003a).
Prior research suggests that family firms are theoretically distinctive from private
nonfamily firms because agency relationships in family firms are characterized
by parental altruism (Lubatkin, Schulze, Ling, & Dino, 2005). As a trait that posi-
tively links a parent’s welfare to that of their children (Stark, 1995), parental altru-
ism can promote family bonds, which in turn help to align incentives and reduce
information asymmetries among a family firm’s key decision makers, thereby redu-
cing the cost of governance (Lubatkin et al., 2005).
The culture of parental love has a long history in Chinese society. The ancient
history book titled Intrigues of the Warring States more than two thousand years ago
states that ‘the true love of parents would be far-reaching’. This statement describes
the unselfish devotion of parental altruistic behavior in Chinese society toward
their children. The parent–children relationship has a duality. In addition to
bearing the natural responsibility of human reproduction, parents are also respon-
sible for engaging in societal activities such as economic production. Thus, parental
altruistic behavior has been examined as a type of socio-economic behavior and
can be extended through family networks of distant kinship ties (Karra et al.,
2006). In particular, based on an analysis of the social structure of Chinese
society, the ‘differential sequence’ argument proposed by the influential Chinese
sociologist Fei (1948) provides a theoretical perspective to examine the altruistic
parental behavior expressed in the process of intergenerational succession of
Chinese family firms.
As a widely existing phenomenon in Chinese family firms, paternalism-based
altruistic parental behavior can manifest in various forms (Cheng, Chou, Wu,
Huang, & Farh, 2004). The parent generation places second-generation
members of the family in key positions in the firm to gain managerial experience
and even arranges trusted executives to assist them in the process (Zhao et al.,
362
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

2020); the founder generation could even create ‘secret reserves’ in the firm for
future performance to prepare for the take-over of the successor, to the detriment
of current achievement (Wei & Chen, 2015). Using the metaphor of ‘helping to get
onto horseback and escorting for a while’, the study by Zhu, Li, and Ye (2018) sug-
gested that the founder generation would initiate necessary strategic transforma-
tions of the firm, which come at the cost of the firm’s current performance,
to prepare for intergeneration succession. These prior studies suggest that altruism
provides a useful approach to examine parental altruistic behavior, which is based
on blood or marriage ties, especially the altruistic behavior of the founder gener-
ation toward their successor when preparing for intergenerational succession.
Altruistic behavior facilitates the long-term orientation of family firms (Diaz-
Moriana et al., 2020). Thus, following the altruism approach, we expect that
co-governance as a transitional governance arrangement provides a mechanism
to explain the enhanced innovation of family firms during intergenerational succes-
sion. Enhanced innovation would enable the successor generation to receive the
return from the innovation after their full take-over of the family firm, so that the
family wealth and business can be preserved (Zellweger, Nason, & Nordqvist,
2011) and continuity of the firm’s history and tradition can be ensured (Craig &
Dibrell, 2006).
On the other hand, altruistic behavior is not homogeneous among members
of the firm’s owning family, as it can be influenced by specific relationships between
the incumbent and the successor generations (Eddleston & Kidwell, 2012; Garcia
et al., 2019). We draw on Chinese yin-yang philosophy (Chen, 2002; Li, 2012,
2014, 2015) to develop a balancing approach to family firm succession and innov-
ation. Following this approach, intergenerational succession of family firms is con-
ceptualized as a process through which family firms seek to achieve the dual goal of
smooth succession and sustainable growth by balancing the tendencies of change
and continuity in the firm. More specifically, we specify change and continuity
as two strategic directions (Zhao et al., 2020) that need to balance in the process
of intergenerational succession. These two directions present a paradox, as they
have a partially conflicting (trade-off) and partially complementary (synergy) rela-
tionship; one gives rise to the other. The change-continuity paradox includes two
dimensions of the conflicting and complementary tendency. The first is the change
tendency brought in by the successor as the newcomer and the continuity tendency
represented by the founder as the old guard of the firm. The second is the negative
inertia and positive experience possessed by the founder. Incorporating these two
dimensions, founder and successor co-governance would affect innovation activ-
ities of the firm. Yin-yang philosophy illuminates the paradox between the two
overall strategic directions of change and continuity as reflected in intergenera-
tional succession because the yin-yang perspective has the strength with its capacity
to simultaneously embrace change and continuity as two conflicting but comple-
mentary tendencies (Chen, 2002; Li, 2012, 2014). We employ yin-yang philosophy
363
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

to address the change-continuity paradox in the context of innovation activities
initiated in intergenerational succession of family firms.
Following the altruism approach, our study draws on factors that are reflect-
ive of family relationships and posits that these factors can regulate the contingent
conditions for direct relationship between co-governance and innovation. The
three factors of kinship relationship (Schulze, Lubatkin, Dino, & Buchholtz,
2001; Van den Berghe & Carchon, 2003), age difference between the founder
and successor (Glauben, Petrick, Tietje, & Weiss, 2009; Kimhi & Nachlieli,
2001; Zacher, Schmitt, & Gielnik, 2012), and female gender of the successor
(Akhmedova, Cavallotti, Marimon, & Campopiano, 2020; Kubíček & Machek,
2019; Mussolino, Cicellin, Iacono, Consiglio, & Martinez, 2019) demonstrate dif-
ferent dimensions of family relationships in family firms and thus can affect the
extent or level of altruistic behavior. Based on these previous studies, we
propose that these three factors moderate the baseline relationship between co-
governance and innovation.
Moreover, prior research has suggested that family firms have a tendency of
risk aversion due to the strong desire to keep the business in the family and to con-
tinue the family legacy (Kellermanns, Eddleston, Sarathy, & Murphy, 2012; Miller
& Le Breton-Miller, 2014). While co-governance has a positive effect on resource
commitment to innovation, the tendency of risk aversion can prevent family firms
from more inventive but high-risk innovation activities due to concerns over failure
and loss of assets (Diaz-Moriana et al., 2020). Thus, it is expected that co-govern-
ance would influence the flow of resource commitment to different types of innov-
ation in terms of risk level.
Therefore, following the altruism approach, we developed a conceptual
framework to investigate how intergenerational succession affects innovation by
examining the relationship between co-governance and innovation as well as the
contingent conditions for this direct relationship, which are summarized in
Figure 1. Our framework depicts the impact of co-governance on innovation as
the baseline relationship (H1), and further proposes that this baseline relationship
is contingent on the moderating effects from three factors of kinship relationship
(H2), age difference (H3), and gender difference (H4), which are drawn from the
altruism approach. Moreover, the framework proposes that co-governance will
direct resources to different types of innovation, resulting in a differentiation of
innovation activities (H5). The rationale for each of the hypothesized relationships
is developed below.
Hypotheses Development
Co-governance and resource allocation for innovation. Initiation of succession is likely to lead
to an increased level of strategic change (Quigley & Hambrick, 2012), especially for
intergenerational succession of family firms in emerging economies like China
(Zhao et al., 2020). Signaling a transitional process of intergenerational succession,
364
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

co-governance represents a new form of governance structure in the firm, which
would in turn result in a need to balance change and continuity in the firm’s busi-
ness strategic direction. The altruistic behavior of the founder generation toward
future generations facilitates a long-term orientation, which in turn promotes
risk-taking (Zahra, 2003). Although characterized with a high level of risk, innov-
ation is crucial for the long-term growth of any firm and particularly important for
family firms, as it presents a survival mechanism and increases the likelihood of
long-term growth across generations (Diaz-Moriana et al., 2020; Jaskiewicz,
Combs, & Rau, 2015; Zellweger et al., 2011).
From the altruistic perspective, intergenerational co-governance aims to
achieve smooth intergenerational succession in family firms. With support from
the founder generation, co-governance would gradually provide the successor
with decision-making power and authority (Sardeshmukh & Corbett, 2011).
However, intergenerational succession of family firms tends to lead to a decline
of competitive advantage and firm performance (Cucculelli & Micucci, 2008),
especially when the successor is less passionate about the firm than the founder,
and thus also less likely to have a strong commitment to the firm (Dawson,
Sharma, Irving, Marcus, & Chirico, 2015; Garcia et al., 2019; Zellweger et al.,
2011). In order to prevent loss of firm competitiveness after succession, the
founder generation may take measures in advance during the co-governance
period to strengthen the innovation of the firm. The New Hope Group in
China provides a typical example regarding arrangements for intergenerational
succession. To facilitate a smooth transition of the governing power to the daughter
successor, the firm founder invested heavily in innovation activities during the co-
governance period so that the firm was able to upgrade its position from traditional
pig-farming to eco-agriculture in the value chain. As a result, the fashion-loving
daughter found that running the firm was attractive enough to make a whole-
hearted commitment.
Therefore, to facilitate a successful succession while maintaining competitive-
ness, the altruistic behavior and the change-continuity balancing approach enable
family firms to modify their risk aversion tendency by taking the risk of making
Figure 1. Conceptual framework of the study
365
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

more resource commitments to innovation for the benefit of the successor. The
benefits from innovation activities conducted during the co-governance period
would help the successor create a defense mechanism against the possible turbu-
lence associated with the departure of the founder generation, so that the successor
is able to establish authority after taking over the firm (Brown & Lahey, 2015; Gal
& McShane, 2012; Van Buren & Safferstone, 2009). We propose that co-govern-
ance provides a mechanism to shed light on the change-continuity paradox of
innovation. This is because family firms tend to take a long-term orientation
when
pursuing
intergenerational
succession
(Diaz-Moriana
et
al.,
2020;
Lumpkin & Brigham, 2011) and innovation activities represent firm investment
in future growth, indicating a long-term strategy to establish sustainable competi-
tive advantage (Coad & Rao, 2011; Jaskiewicz et al., 2015).
On the other hand, inner family conflicts can occur due to agency problems
and goal diversity among family members (Eddleston & Kellermanns, 2007;
Schulze, Lubatkin, & Dino, 2003b), contributing to the change-continuity
paradox
with
regard
to
innovation
of
family
firms
(Chrisman,
Chua,
Kellermanns, & Chang, 2007; De Massis et al., 2015; Rondi et al., 2019). More
specifically, the founder and successor can hold different attitudes regarding the
firm’s commitments to innovation. For instance, the older generation with an
inertia tendency could be more conservative and have a trend of risk aversion
toward innovation, or the older generation may intend to stay in control longer
and thus not be keen to hand control to the younger generation (Brown,
Lawrence, & Robinson, 2005; Cadieux, Lorrain, & Hugron, 2002). These conflict-
ing aspects of family firm co-governance need to be addressed when analyzing the
impact of co-governance on innovation.
The extent of negative effects from inner family conflicts is determined by
whether the conflicts can be constructively managed, mitigated, and resolved
(Qiu & Freel, 2020). Task, process, and relationship conflicts are identified as
three types of inner family conflict (De Dreu & Van Vianen, 2001), and among
the three, relationship conflict is more likely to lead to negative effects (Jehn,
1997). Altruistic behavior can be helpful to mitigate negative effects of relationship
conflict. When facing relationship conflict, family firms can effectively utilize the
talents and opinions of family members because of altruistic behavior, whereas
nonfamily firms can be full of animosity (Kellermanns & Eddleston, 2004).
Constructive conflict resolution due to altruistic behavior is more evident for
family firms with a co-governance structure when the firm is experiencing the suc-
cession process, which presents a structure of shared leadership. Shared leadership
is defined as a dynamic and interactive influence process among individuals in
teams for which the objective is to lead one another to the achievement of organ-
izational goals (Pearce & Conger, 2002; Serban & Roberts, 2016). Task cohesion
and internal team environment are identified as two key factors that facilitate the
emergence and positive consequences of shared leadership (D’Innocenzo,
Mathieu, & Kukenberger, 2016; Serban & Roberts, 2016). Task cohesion is
366
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

defined as the commitment to the team’s goals and shared attraction of individuals
in the leadership team (Carless & De Paola, 2000), while internal team environ-
ment refers to team members’ efforts at providing emotional and psychological
support to one another through encouragement and recognition of individual
and team contributions and accomplishments (Carson, Tesluk, & Marrone, 2007).
Co-governance of family firms presents an ideal context for the presence of
these two factors. First, signifying intergenerational succession, co-governance is
likely to facilitate task cohesion between the founder and successor as a shared lead-
ership team. With a high level of altruism, family members are more considerate of
each other and loyal to the family business (De Massis, Kotlar, Mazzola, Minola, &
Sciascia, 2018; Rondi et al., 2019), although altruistic behavior may also lead to
agency problems due to its association with limited rationality and cronyism
(Schulze et al., 2003a). Moreover, co-governance of the intergenerational team
can produce even stronger cohesion with parental altruistic love toward the off-
spring for the firm’s strategic succession (Ensley & Pearson, 2005). Second,
aiming at a smooth completion of intergenerational succession, co-governance pro-
vides an ideal internal team environment for shared leadership. When team
members have a similar understanding of their main team objectives and focus
on accomplishing collective goals, shared purpose arises as the key dimension of
an internal team environment (Carson et al., 2007). Family firms are heavily
oriented toward long-term initiatives (Miller & Le Breton-Miller, 2005), as they
have a strong desire to continue the family legacy and to keep the business in
the family for generations (Kellermanns et al., 2012). With a high level of altruism
and aiming to facilitate intergenerational succession, the founder and successor
generations tend to be willing to tolerate each other and to make sacrifices when
necessary.
In sum, we propose that co-governance provides a novel mechanism to
resolve the paradox (De Massis et al., 2015) by stimulating innovation willingness.
While risk aversion tendency and inner family conflicts are identified as barriers for
innovation of family firms, co-governance of the family plays an essential role to
mitigate and reduce their negative influence on innovation. Thus, we develop
the following baseline hypothesis:
Hypothesis 1: Co-governance of the family firm positively affects the firm’s innovation
activities.
Moderating effect of kinship relationship. Prior research suggests that kinship relation-
ship-based altruistic behavior is an essential feature that distinguishes family
firms from nonfamily firms (Chrisman, Chua, & Zahra, 2003; Karra et al.,
2006). Based on the altruism principle, it is quite common that configuration of
assets and authority is more kinship-based rather than merit-based (Chrisman
et al., 2003). Research has found that altruistic behavior in family firms varies
according to the level of closeness within kinship relationships (Karra et al.,
367
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

2006; Lubatkin, Ling, & Schulze, 2007). Based on the level of closeness, kinship
relationships in family firms are classified as members of three types of family com-
position: nuclear family, extended family, and composite family (Ensley & Pearson,
2005; Gersick, Davis, Hampton, & Lansberg, 1997; Karra et al., 2006). Built on
these previous studies, co-governance can be structured into two major types of
parent–child co-governance (including father–son, father–daughter, mother–son,
and mother–daughter relationships) and other intergenerational co-governance
(including uncle–nephew, uncle–niece, aunt–nephew, and aunt–niece relation-
ships). The likelihood of agency problems, which arise from the conflict of interests
between the firm’s management and its shareholders, is much smaller for the
parent–child relationship than other kinship relationships in the TMT of the
family firm (Ensley & Pearson, 2005; Schulze et al., 2001; Van den Berghe &
Carchon, 2003).
Chinese society has long attached great importance to blood and kinship rela-
tionships. As proposed by Chinese sociologist Fei (1948), Chinese society is struc-
tured by following the kinship-based differential sequence. This differential
sequence is described as similar to the ripple effect – where each person is the
center of the circles that their social influence has reached, just like ripples expand-
ing across the water when a pebble is dropped in a pond. Kinship relationships are
centered on a focal individual, spread outward, and become weaker and more
distant. This kinship relationship-based differential sequence not only acts as a
central pattern to structure social relations but also plays an important role in allo-
cating family-owned resources (Li, 2002).
Based on the above-discussed linkage with kinship relationship-based altruis-
tic behavior, we propose that the kinship relationship between the founder and suc-
cessor affects the strength of altruistic support when paving the way for
intergenerational succession. The parent–child relationship will lead to a higher
level of altruistic behavior and stronger parental support from the founder gener-
ation than other intergenerational relationships (Galperti & Strulovici, 2017; Van
den Berghe & Carchon, 2003). When the firm is to be succeeded by a direct des-
cendant, the founder generation would be more concerned about potential diffi-
culties after the successor’s take-over of the firm, such as lack of authority in
governing the firm, weak capability for risk-taking, and the need to improve tech-
nology and position in the value chain. As a result, the founder generation is likely
to make stronger commitments to innovation. Thus, under the watch of the
founder generation, the firm will enhance its innovation during the co-governance
period.
On the other hand, while parental altruistic behavior can be extended
through family networks of distant kinship ties, its strength becomes diluted for
distant kin and ethnic ties (Karra et al., 2006). Thus, when the successor comes
from a kinship relationship in the extended family, such as nephew or niece,
rather than from a nuclear family, the altruistic support toward the successor
will be weaker. Based on this argument, we propose a positive moderating effect
368
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

of the kinship relationship on the direct link between co-governance and
innovation.
Hypothesis 2: The kinship relationship positively moderates the direct relationship between
co-governance and innovation activities, so that a parent-child co-governance is more likely to
lead to increase of innovation activities than co-governance in other types of intergenerational
kinship relationships.
Moderating effect of age difference. It is common that in the succession process, the foun-
der’s altruistic behavior derived from altruistic parental support toward offspring is
coupled with intertemporal decision-making (Diaz-Moriana et al., 2020; Kraiczy
et al., 2015; Lubatkin et al., 2007; Lumpkin & Brigham, 2011). Prior research
has suggested that the age difference between the predecessor and successor as
well as the predecessor’s age are important factors influencing succession of
family businesses (Cabrera-Suárez, De Saá-Pérez, & García-Almeida, 2001;
Calabrò, Minichilli, Amore, & Brogi, 2018; Davis & Harveston, 1998; Glauben
et al., 2009). When the incumbent controller of the family firm gets older, he/
she tends to be more risk averse and is more likely to increase commitment to
the family firm (Davis & Harveston, 1998). Moreover, as the predecessor advances
in age, he/she may use preparation for succession as a mechanism to demonstrate
his/her commitment to the future of the family firm while simultaneously control-
ling risk. Thus, strategic changes, such as initiating innovation activities in the
family firm, tend to occur during the transitional period of succession, rather
than after the successor takes over the firm (Garcia et al., 2019). This is not only
due to the need for gradually building up authority for the successor, but also to
prevent the risk associated with potential turbulence after the successor has
taken over the firm (Grote, 2003). That is, with increase of the predecessor’s
age, the consciousness of a need to prepare for the inevitable transition of
control over the firm will lead to a concomitant increase in succession planning.
Following a similar line, intertemporal decision-making logic can also apply to
family firm decision-making regarding commitments to innovation activities
during the co-governance period. The age difference influences the relationship
quality between the founder and successor generations (Cabrera-Suárez et al.,
2001) and thus becomes a factor that would have an impact on the family firm’s
commitments to innovation activities during the transitional succession period.
The time frame and timing are central for intergenerational succession of family
firms (Le Breton-Miller et al., 2004). The bigger the age gap between the two gen-
erations, the more likely the co-governance would lead to higher commitments to
innovation activities. The rationale for this relationship is twofold. First, the bigger
the age difference between the founder and successor generations, the stronger the
paternalistic love of the founder toward the successor, resulting in a higher level of
commitment to support the succession, including enhanced innovation activities.
The old Chinese saying that the ‘older cow loves her calf more’ provides a
369
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

reflection of the linkage between age gap and parental love. Second, a bigger age
gap between the founder and successor tends to indicate the more advanced age of
the founder generation, and this age gap would stimulate a sense of urgency to
proceed with the succession (Glauben et al., 2009; Kimhi & Nachlieli, 2001;
Zacher et al., 2012). Thus, the founder generation will feel pressure to prepare
for handing over control of the firm. In contrast, a smaller age gap between the
founder and successor indicates the capability of the founder to run the firm,
and thus the need for succession would not be as strong. Therefore, we propose
an influence of age difference on the linkage between co-governance and innov-
ation activities, and expect that:
Hypothesis 3: Age difference between the founder and successor positively moderates the
direct relationship between co-governance and innovation activities, so that the bigger the
age difference is, the more likely co-governance will lead to an increase of innovation activities.
Moderating effect of gender difference. Research in economics and social psychology has
long paid attention to the gender difference in altruistic behavior (Andreoni &
Vesterlund, 2001; Brush, 1992; Schwartz & Rubel, 2005). Prior research has sug-
gested that by bringing up a daughter, a CEO can alter their own altruistic pref-
erence (Fiese & Skillman, 2000). Following this line of research, we propose that a
female successor to the family firm would further stimulate the founder genera-
tion’s feeling of ‘far-sighted’ parental love toward the successor. In comparison
to a male successor, a female successor would confront unique challenges when
taking over a family firm, as she often faces discrimination and stereotyping due
to both societal stereotypes/prejudices and family hierarchies (Hytti, Alsos,
Heinonen, & Ljunggren, 2017; Mussolino et al., 2019; Vera & Dean, 2005).
The preference for males over females as the successor is widely found in the busi-
ness world (Bennedsen, Nielsen, Pérez-González, & Wolfenzon, 2007; Cabrera-
Suárez et al., 2001; Cao et al., 2015; Haberman & Danes, 2007). As a result,
when a female member of the owning family eventually becomes the successor,
the founder generation would take greater care of the female successor by acting
as a mentor and protector because the founder is concerned about the female suc-
cessor’s lack of authority (Deng, 2015; Kubíček & Machek, 2019; Smythe &
Sardeshmukh, 2013).
Therefore, in order to prepare for succession to a female descendant, the
founder generation is more likely to sense a strong need to take control of the suc-
cession process for taking over by a female successor (Chen, Fang, MacKenzie,
Carter, Chen, & Wu, 2018; Overbeke, Bilimoria, & Perelli, 2013), and it is espe-
cially so when the incumbent generation are females (Cadieux et al., 2002; Ferrari,
2019). When the incumbent and successor have a father–daughter relationship, the
father tends to see his daughter as a business partner to share decision-making of
the firm but at the same time as his child who needs protection and support
(Hollander & Bukowitz, 1990; Vera & Dean, 2005). This parental support is
370
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

more likely to influence future directions of the firm, such as enhancing innovation
activities rather than daily operations (Glover, 2014).
The cultural and social context in different countries can also influence intra-
family succession in general and a female as the successor in particular (Cao et al.,
2015; Deng, 2015; Mathew, 2016). In Chinese society, the traditional saying of
‘raising the daughter with caring love, and raising the son with tough love’ reflects
the Chinese parenting style toward gender difference of offspring. This saying indi-
cates that paternalistic love tends to pay special attention to female offspring.
China has provided some typical examples where the founders of family firms
took extra care of female successors, such as Yang Guoqiang, Chairman of
Country Garden Group; Zong Qinghou, Chairman of Wahaha Group; and Liu
Yonghao, Chairman of the New Hope Group. In these cases, the founders of
the major Chinese family firms had long prepared their daughters’ succession by
letting the potential female successors to enter their firms early, and gradually
take key positions so that the successors could be trained to take over the firms.
In summary, when a female successor is to take over the firm, the founder
generation is more likely to pay more attention to planning a smooth succession by
providing more support to the successor through enhancing innovation activities
during the co-governance period. Thus, we propose a positive moderating effect
of the successor’s female gender on the direct link between co-governance and
innovation activities, and expect that:
Hypothesis 4: Female gender of the successor positively moderates the direct relationship
between co-governance and innovation activities. That is: if the successor is a female descend-
ant of the founder, it is more likely co-governance will lead to an increase of innovation
activities.
Co-governance and differentiation of innovation activities. A long-term perspective plays a
significant role in family firms when exhibiting strategic behavior (Brigham,
Lumpkin, Payne, & Zachary, 2014; Lumpkin & Brigham, 2011). On the one
hand, firms with long-term orientations pursue continuity as the strategic goal of
the firm and thus tend to invest in less risky projects than firms with short-range
perspectives (Gentry, Dibrell, & Kim, 2016; Zellweger, 2007). On the other
hand, a long-term orientation promotes intergenerational succession by bringing
in the successor as a strategic change, which in turn leads to risk-taking tendency
due to the altruistic behavior of the family firm leaders toward future generations
(Zahra, 2003), and this tendency can result in a positive effect of co-governance on
innovation. Following the balancing approach from Chinese yin-yang philosophy,
co-governance provides a mechanism to incorporate change and continuity as two
seemingly contrary but actually complementary tendencies (Chen, 2002; Li, 2012,
2014). While co-governance leads to an increase of resource commitment to innov-
ation so that change can be facilitated through smooth succession of the firm, co-
governance can also maintain continuity, resulting in a differentiation of
371
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

innovation activities, that is, resources tend to be allocated to innovation activities
that represent a low, rather than high, level of risk. The rationale for this innov-
ation differentiation is twofold.
First, due to a risk aversion tendency that is generated from a desire for con-
tinuity and a concern about losing socio-emotional wealth and weakening control
over the family firm (Chrisman & Patel, 2012), the more inventive but high-risk
innovation activities can be suppressed during the succession process. Inventive
innovation activities tend to require application of specialized technology/man-
agement know-how, and there is a lack of these requisite skills in family firms
(Chrisman, Chua, & Sharma, 2005). Furthermore, these activities are usually exe-
cuted
by
technological
experts
and
managed
by
professional
executives
(McDermott & O’Connor, 2002), who are less likely to be members of the
owning family. Concern about losing control over the firm to professional execu-
tives would lead to a decline of resources allocated to radical but high-risk innova-
tions (Chrisman et al., 2012; Rondi et al., 2019).
Second, representing the change tendency of co-governance, a smooth inter-
generational succession would have a higher level of priority for the firm, and
resource commitment to innovation activities is needed to serve this purpose.
However, more inventive innovation can be neglected because such innovation
usually involves a long process with uncertain return on investment inputs.
Resource inputs into such investment projects could generate a negative effect
on the performance of the firm in the near future (Gentry et al., 2016;
Zellweger, 2007), and thus undermine the establishment of authority by the succes-
sor when she/he takes over control of the firm. As a result, innovation resources are
more likely to be allocated to the more traditional and incremental areas, rather
than to expand to the more creative and risky areas. Thus, we have the following
hypotheses:
Hypothesis 5: Co-governance of the family firm would have a positive effect on low-risk
innovation activities.
Hypothesis 5a: Co-governance of the family firm would not have a positive effect on high-
risk innovation activities.
METHODS
Data and Sample
The starting point for constructing our sample was the firms listed in the Shanghai
and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges. We then focused on the family firms. Following
prior research (Gomez-Mejia, Makri, & Larraza-Kintana, 2010; Gomez-Mejia
et al., 2014), the criteria for family firms were established as follows: (1) the control-
ler of the firm can be traced to a person or a family which is linked by blood or
372
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

marriage relationships and (2) either directly or indirectly, the controller of the firm
is the largest shareholder of the listed company.
The period of our study spanned ten years (2006–2015). Data were obtained
from the two databases of China Securities Market and Accounting Research
(CSMAR) and Wind Information Technology (WIND). To construct our key
explanatory variable of co-governance, we identified and confirmed kinship rela-
tionships through several ways, including: (1) firms’ annual reports, prospectuses,
and listing announcements; (2) for unknown kinship relationships in a family
firm, we identified the kinship relationships with the owning family of the firm
through social media searches for all board directors, board supervisors, and
members of the TMT; and (3) based on the list of board of directors, board of
supervisors, and the TMT over the years, we traced the changes of positions for
the members of the owning family in the family firm in order to determine the
stage of intergenerational succession of the family firm. We excluded family
firms from finance and insurance sectors to have a more comparable sample set.
We also excluded firms for which data for key variables of the study were
missing. For the firms with partially missing or suspicious data, we cross-checked
the two databases to complement the missing data.
Eventually, we had 4,694 firm-year observations in our sample, including 874
firm-year observations for co-governance (18.72%) and 3,820 firm-year observa-
tions for non-co-governance family firms. For the industrial distribution, 72.66%
of our full sample and 78.36% of our sample for co-governance family firms
come from the manufacturing sector.
The annual distribution of our sample in terms of co-governance and non-co-
governance family firms is presented in Table 1.
Variables and Measurements
Dependent variable. The dependent variable of innovation can be measured either by
its input or its output and we adopted both measures. Following prior research
(Chrisman & Patel, 2012; Devers, McNamara, Wiseman, & Arrfelt, 2008; Miller
& Le Breton-Miller, 2005), R&D intensity as innovation input was measured as
the ratio of R&D expenditure to the sales of the firm. As a firm’s commitment
to innovation is associated with risk and generally does not produce immediate
pay-offs, R&D intensity is able to indicate a firm’s long-term orientation,
making it particularly suitable to test our conceptual framework derived from
the altruism perspective in terms of parental love-based altruistic behavior
during the intergenerational succession process. For the robust test, we measured
innovation by output for which the number of patent applications was used. This is
also a widely used measure for innovation (Piperopoulos, Wu, & Wang, 2018; Ren,
Eisingerich, & Tsai, 2015; Wu, Wang, Hong, Piperopoulos, & Zhuo, 2016).
Furthermore, to examine the relationship between co-governance and differenti-
ation of innovation activities, the focal firm’s application numbers of inventive
373
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

patents versus non-inventive patents (patents of utility models and designs) were
adopted to measure high versus low-risk innovation, respectively.
Independent and moderator variables. On the basis of involvement in governance and
management by family members from both the founder and successor generations,
we used a binary measure of co-governance (Anderson & Reeb, 2003; Gomez-
Mejia et al., 2010; Villalonga & Amit, 2006). The binary co-governance
measure distinguished co-governance firms (equal to 1) from non-co-governance
firms (equal to 0). More specifically, we classified a firm as having co-governance
when it meets the condition that family members (defined as a person related by
blood or by marriage to the owning family) of both the founder and successor gen-
erations serve in the TMT of the firm.
To examine the contingency conditions on which co-governance influences
innovation activities, we introduced three moderating variables of kinship relation-
ship, age difference, and gender difference. Kinship relationship is operationalized
as a binary measure. If the firm founder and the successor have a parent–child rela-
tionship, it takes a value of 1 and all other intergenerational kinship relationships take
a value of 0. The age difference is measured as a continuous variable by subtracting
the successor’s age from the founder’s age. The gender difference is measured as a
binary variable, taking the value of 1 for a female and 0 for a male successor.
Control variables. We included a comprehensive set of control variables. In control-
ling influence from firm characteristics, firm age (Anderson & Reeb, 2003) and
firm size (Berrone, Cruz, Gomez-Mejia, & Larraza-Kintana, 2010) are included.
Firm age is measured as the natural logarithm of the number of years since its foun-
dation, whereas firm size is operationalized as the natural logarithm of the assets.
Table 1. Sample distribution by year
Year
Full sample
Co-governance firms
Non-co-governance firms
N
N
%
N
%
2006
195
21
10.76
174
89.23
2007
265
30
11.32
235
88.67
2008
309
33
10.67
276
89.32
2009
423
52
12.29
371
87.70
2010
678
84
12.38
594
87.61
2011
878
118
13.43
760
86.56
2012
973
139
14.28
834
85.71
2013
982
135
13.74
847
86.25
2014
986
136
13.79
850
86.20
2015
982
126
12.83
856
87.16
Total
4,694
874
18.72
3,820
81.28
374
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

The governance structure of the firm can affect the TMT’s decision-making,
and thus influences the firm’s behavior in innovation investment. In this regard, we
controlled the three variables of dual role of CEO and board chairman (Dual),
ratio of independent board directors to the full board members (Indep), and pro-
portion of the shareholdings by the TMT members (ESH). Succession legitimacy
was included and captured by the ratio of all family members’ shareholdings to the
total firm stock (FSH), as a high level of family shareholding tends to lead to under-
investment in innovation activities (Block, 2012; Chrisman & Patel, 2012). Asset-
liability ratio (LEV) and return on assets (ROA) were included as they reflect the
available slack of the firm for R&D investment. In addition, to control influence
from the macro-economic environment and industrial sectors, we include the
dummy variables of time (year) and industry.
The definitions and measurements of the main variables are shown in
Table 2.
Descriptive Statistics and Correlation Coefficients
Table 3 presents descriptive statistics for the main variables included in the study, split
into two samples of co-governance firms and total family firms. A cross-analysis shows
that the maximum, minimum, mean, and standard deviation for R&D intensity of co-
governance firms are 0.198, 0, 0.03, and 0.033, respectively. The corresponding
values for overall family firms are 0.198, 0, 0.03, and 0.027, respectively, indicating
a higher level of innovation investment for co-governance family firms.
Table 4 presents the correlation matrix for the main variables included in the
study. The correlation between co-governance and R&D intensity is significant and
positive (r = 0.067, p < 0.01). For the three moderating variables, kinship and
gender are not significantly correlated with R&D intensity, whereas the age difference
is significantly correlated with R&D intensity (r = 0.066, p < 0.1). Importantly, no cor-
relation index between any variables included in the study is larger than 0.3, indicat-
ing multicollinearity is not a concern for empirical analysis of the study.
RESULTS
Hypotheses Testing: Co-Governance, Innovation Activities, and
Moderating Effects
We adopted moderated ordinary least squares (OLS) as the modeling method for
regression analysis. In order to avoid potential multicollinearity caused by adding
moderating terms, we mean-cenetred the independent and moderating variables.
Six model estimations were performed. Table 5 reports the results concerning the
effects of impacting factors on innovation investment.
Model 1 included the co-governance independent variable and all control
variables. This variable is significant (β = 0.003, p < 0.05), indicating a positive
375
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

effect of co-governance on R&D intensity. Thus, Hypothesis 1 is supported. Model
2 added three moderator variables to Model 1. Co-governance remains significant
in Model 2 (β = 0.004, p < 0.05), providing further support for Hypothesis 1. For
the three moderator variables, kinship and gender are not significant, whereas
the age difference is significant (β =0.024, p < 0.1).
Models 3–5 added three moderators and their moderating terms respectively to
Model 1 to test moderating effects on the direct relationship between co-governance
and R&D intensity. In Model 3, the moderating term of kinship is significant (β
=0.023, p < 0.1), indicating a positive moderating effect of kinship. Similarly, mod-
erating terms are significant in Models 4 and 5 by involving the two moderators of
age difference (β = 0.04, p < 0.01) and gender (β = 0.008, p < 0.05), respectively,
indicating positive moderating effects of age difference and gender. In summary,
modeling results from Models 3–5 provide empirical support for Hypotheses 2–4
regarding moderating effects of the three moderator variables. Model 6 presented
a full model analysis by including all the independent moderator and control
Table 2. Variable definition and measurement
Variable type
Variable symbol
Variable measurement
DV
R&D intensity
Ratio of R&D expenditures to the sales of the firm
Patent
Number of patent applications
Patenti
Application number of inventive patents
Patentud
Application number of non-inventive patents (patent of utility
model and design)
IV
Co-governance
Binary measure. Taking value 1 when both the founder and
successor generations of the owning family take key positions
in the governing body; otherwise taking value 0
Moderator
variables
Kinship
Binary measure with parent–child relationship between the
firm founder and the successor taking value 1 and all other
kinship relationships between the founder and the successor
taking value 0
Age difference
Continuous variable measured by subtracting the successor’s
age from the founder’s age
Gender
difference
A binary variable, taking value of 1 when the successor is female
and 0 for a male successor
Control
variables
Firm age
Natural logarithm of the number of years since its foundation
Firm size
The natural logarithm of the assets
Dual
Binary measure taking value 1 when the same person takes dual
role of CEO and board chair, otherwise taking value 0
Indep
Ratio of the number of independent board directors to the total
number of board directors
ESH
Ratio of TMT shareholding to the total firm stock
FSH
Ratio of all family members’ shareholding to the total firm stock
LEV
Asset-liability ratio = total liabilities/total assets
ROA
Return on assets = net profit/total assets
Year
The sample interval is from 2006 to 2015, with a total of nine
annual dummy variables
Industry
According to the CSRC industry code classification, a total of
18 industry dummy variables
376
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Table 3. Descriptive statistics for main variables
Variables
Co-governance firms
Family firms
N
Min
Max
Mean
SD
N
Min
Max
Mean
SD
R&D intensity
874
0
0.198
0.038
0.033
4,694
0
0.198
0.034
0.027
Patent
874
0
1,073
19.654
66.411
4,694
0
1,121
15.591
48.274
Patenti
874
0
503
5.299
23.187
4,694
0
550
5.702
22.162
Patentud
874
0
570
14.354
46.595
4,694
0
600
10.645
34.317
Kinship
874
0
1
0.234
0.424
1,845
0
1
0.225
0.418
Age difference
874
2
49
23.867
7.112
1,845
1
49
23.968
6.329
Gender difference
874
0
1
0.315
0.465
1,845
0
1
0.207
0.406
Firm age
874
0
3.295
2.384
0.513
4,694
0
3.401
2.341
0.559
Firm size
874
19.212
25.290
21.575
1.043
4,694
16.508
25.472
21.434
0.954
Dual
874
0
1
0.335
0.472
4,694
0
1
0.350
0.477
Indep
874
0.250
0.600
0.360
0.042
4,694
0.142
0.666
0.373
0.052
ESH
874
0
0.897
0.233
0.240
4,694
0
0.897
0.243
0.242
FSH
874
0.053
0.766
0.403
0.171
4,694
0.528
0.765
0.398
0.177
LEV
874
0
2.071
0.389
0.454
4,694
0
2.071
0.342
0.406
ROA
874
−0.004
0.132
0.504
0.038
4,694
−0.004
0.132
0.501
0.037
377
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Table 4. Correlation matrix for main variables
Variables
R&D
intensity
Patent
Patenti
Patentud
Co-governance
Kinship
Age
difference
Gender
difference
Dual
Indep
ESH
FSH
ROA
LEV
R&D intensity
1
Patent
0.067***
1
Patenti
0.105***
0.879***
1
Patentud
0.053***
0.951***
0.690*
1
Co-governance
0.067***
0.130**
–0.108*
0.051**
1
Kinship
0.017
0.084**
0.039**
0.092**
0.020
1
Age difference
0.066*
0.141*
0.125*
0.138*
−0.016
−0.612*
1
Gender difference
0.033
0.064
0.017
0.083*
0.257*
−0.113*
0.049*
1
Dual
0.118*
0.046*
0.033
0.048*
−0.015
0.016
0.013
0.043
1
Indep
0.094*
0.051*
0.029*
0.045*
−0.013*
−0.040
0.029
0.018
0.127**
1
ESH
0.200*** −0.046*
−0.043*
−0.042*
−0.020
−0.028
0.061* −0.036
0.153**
0.088*
1
FSH
0.096*
0.011
−0.021
0.027
0.025
0.009
0.007
0.023
0.019*
0.066*
0.481*
1
ROA
0.016***
0.016**
0.009*
0.019*
−0.017
−0.025
0.011
0.031* 0.012
−0.004
0.054*
0.105*
1
LEV
−0.272*** −0.019*** −0.036*** −0.007***
−0.055*
−0.036
−0.054* −0.001
0.009*
−0.032* −0.222* −0.169* −0.226***
1
Notes: ***p < 0.01, **p < 0.05, *p < 0.10.
378
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Table 5. Regression results for effects of co-governance on R&D intensity
Variables
R&D intensity
Model 1
Model 2
Model 3
Model 4
Model 5
Model 6
Co-governance
0.003** (2.05)
0.004** (2.51)
0.002 (1.48)
0.000 (0.08)
0.003* (1.91)
−0.010 (−1.25)
Kinship
0.000 (0.20)
−0.007 (−0.36)
−0.003 (−1.05)
Age difference
0.024* (1.69)
0.000 (0.32)
−0.00 (−0.31)
Gender difference
0.001 (0.95)
0.007 (0.68)
0.070** (2.14)
Co-governance × Kinship
0.023* (1.75)
0.022* (1.69)
Co-governance × Age difference
0.004*** (2.77)
0.003* (1.78)
Co-governance × Gender difference
0.008** (2.03)
0.007** (1.96)
Firm age
−0.005*** (−3.59)
−0.004*** (−2.85)
−0.005*** (−3.69)
−0.005*** (−2.97)
−0.000*** (−3.18)
−0.005*** (−3.05)
Firm size
−0.001(−1.57)
−0.003 (−0.36)
−0.001 (−1.46)
−0.005 (−0.54)
−0.006 (−0.67)
−0.000 (−0.14)
Dual
0.002 (1.54)
0.005 (0.31)
0.002 (1.44)
0.006 (0.36)
0.000 (0.06)
0.005 (0.34)
Indep
0.028** (2.19)
0.016 (0.98)
0.014 (1.02)
0.017 (1.03)
0.022 (1.42)
0.018 (1.07)
ESH
0.015*** (5.10)
0.012*** (3.55)
0.022*** (3.99)
0.014*** (3.65)
0.015*** (4.36)
0.013*** (3.70)
FSH
−0.004 (−1.00)
−0.002 (−0.38)
−0.002 (−0.55)
−0.002 (−0.47)
−0.004 (−0.92)
−0.003 (−0.58)
ROA
0.017 (1.48)
0.024* (1.79)
0.019 (1.51)
0.023* (1.73)
0.022 (1.63)
0.022* (1.65)
LEV
−0.015*** (−7.54)
−0.018*** (−6.99)
−0.016*** (−7.12)
−0.018*** (−7.42)
−0.017*** (−7.28)
−0.019*** (−7.15)
Constant
0.016 (0.78)
−0.001 (−0.04)
0.021 (0.92)
0.003 (0.11)
0.058 (0.21)
0.000 (0.01)
Year
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Industry
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Observations
4,694
1,845
874
874
874
874
Adj. R2
0.313
0.319
0.326
0.321
0.323
0.326
Notes: ***p < 0.01, **p < 0.05, *p < 0.1; t-value is provided in the bracket.
379
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

variables, and moderating terms. All three moderating terms remained significant in
Model 6 (β = 0.022, p < 0.1; β = 0.003, p < 0.1; β = 0.007, p < 0.05, respectively),
providing further support for Hypotheses 2–4 regarding the moderating effects of
the study.
Hypotheses Testing: Co-Governance and Differentiation of Innovation
Table 6 presents the results for Hypothesis 5a and Hypothesis 5b regarding
the impact of co-governance on low versus high-risk innovation. We took a lag
of two years for these two variables, based on the understanding that it takes
time for the current R&D investment to generate results of innovation outcome in
terms of patent applications. The results from Model 7 suggest that co-governance
has a significant effect on patent applications with low risk (β = 0.291, p < 0.01), sup-
porting H5a. On the other hand, as shown in Model 9, co-governance does not have
a significant effect on high-risk innovation, providing support to Hypothesis 5b. In
order to increase the confidence in these results, we performed robust tests by con-
trolling the family shareholding ratio (FSH) at a level above 20% of the firm stock.
The results from Models 8 and 10 are qualitatively same as those from Models 7 and
9, providing further support for Hypothesis 5a and Hypothesis 5b.
Thus, our modeling results suggest that co-governance leads to a significant
increase of low-risk innovation but does not have significant influence on high-
risk innovation. This finding demonstrates that increased innovation activities
during the co-governance period aim mainly at stabilizing the firm’s operations
and consolidating its market position in order to have a smooth succession, but
not at the inventive innovations that are more important for the firm’s future devel-
opment. The altruistic caring and support of the co-governance is more manifested
as the ‘far-sighted’, rather than the ‘deep-minded’ effect, which can strength the
overall innovation activities but the resources are flowing to the low-risk and appli-
cation-type innovations, with the neglect of deep innovation.
Robustness Tests
Using an alternative measure for the dependent variable. We ran additional tests to examine
the robustness of our findings and to check whether these findings were due to
potential endogeneity biases. First, we adopted an alternative measure of our
dependent variable by using patent application numbers of family firms to test
the influence of co-governance on R&D investment and the moderating effects
of this influence. Patents are widely used as a measure of firm innovation activities
(e.g., Acharya & Xu, 2017; Guo, Pérez-Castrillo, & Toldrà-Simats, 2019; He &
Tian, 2013). Following these empirical studies, we used the logged number of
patent applications of the firm to measure the firm’s innovation. The rationale
for using patent application numbers in our study as the alternative measure for
R&D spending is twofold: (1) the practical difficulty in obtaining accurate data
380
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

on R&D spending by family firms and (2) the inaccuracy of R&D spending in
reflecting allocation of the investment resources by a firm to innovation activities
with different levels of risk. In our regression analysis, we took a lag of two years
for the dependent variable, as innovation tends to be a long process and there
would be an interval between R&D spending as the innovation input and the
patent as the innovation output.
Table 7 presents the results of the robustness test that adopted logged patent
applications as the alternative measure of the dependent variable (DV). In Model
11, the significant effect (β = 0.206, p < 0.05) of co-governance on the DV provides
further support for Hypothesis 1. Models 13–15 added the three moderator vari-
ables (kinship, age difference, and female gender) and their moderating terms to
Model 11, respectively. The results demonstrated that moderating effects are sig-
nificant for kinship (β = 0.191, p < 0.1), age difference (β = 0.287, p < 0.1), and
gender (β = 0.747, p < 0.01), respectively. Model 16 included all the explanatory
variables, and the moderating effects of the three moderator variables remained
qualitatively the same. These results indicate the robustness of the empirical find-
ings from our regression analyses.
Table 6. Co-governance and innovation differentiation
Variables
LnPatentud
LnPatentud
LnPatenti
LnPatenti
Model 7
Model 8 (FSH ≥20%)
Model 9
Model 10 (FSH ≥20%)
Co-governance
0.291***
0.338***
0.028
0.022
(3.13)
(3.53)
(0.36)
(0.27)
Firm age
−0.032
−0.052
−0.042
−0.037
(−0.33)
(−0.52)
(−0.50)
(−0.44)
Firm size
0.247***
0.233***
0.419***
0.425***
(3.68)
(3.36)
(7.63)
(7.58)
Dual
−1.812*
−0.178*
−0.916
−0.085
(−1.73)
(−1.66)
(−1.05)
(−0.96)
FSH
0.290
0.450
−0.727
−0.187
(0.93)
(1.35)
(−0.26)
(−0.65)
ESH
−0.203
−0.197
−0.020
-0.015
(−0.88)
(−0.84)
(−0.10)
(−0.08)
Indep
−1.353
−1.624
0.760
0.849
(−1.33)
(−1.52)
(0.85)
(0.92)
LEV
−0.648***
−0.557***
−0.526***
−0.542***
(−4.19)
(−3.46)
(−4.31)
(−4.35)
ROA
0.718
0.970*
0.850*
0.853
(1.15)
(1.71)
(1.94)
(1.03)
Constant
−3.496**
−3.210**
−8.408***
−8.547***
(−2.22)
(−1.98)
(−6.43)
(−6.41)
Year
Control
Control
Control
Control
Industry
Control
Control
Control
Control
Observations
2,726
1,391
2,726
1,391
Adj. R2
0.094
0.095
0.140
0.142
Notes: ***p < 0.01, **p < 0.05, *p < 0.1; t-value is provided in the bracket.
381
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Table 7. Robustness test: Effect of co-governance on innovation activities
Variables
LnPatent
LnPatent
LnPatent
LnPatent
LnPatent
LnPatent
Model 11
Model 12
Model 13
Model 14
Model 15
Model 16
Co-governance
0.206** (2.48)
0.176* (1.78)
0.120* (1.95)
0.453 (1.13)
0.064 (0.57)
1.259** (2.22)
Kinship
0.856*** (5.52)
0.539*** (3.68)
0.581*** (2.79)
Age difference
0.033*** (3.28)
−0.021 (−1.61)
0.004 (0.28)
Gender difference
0.191 (1.44)
−0.375 (−1.50)
−0.360 (−1.47)
Co-governance × Kinship
0.191* (1.87)
0.554* (1.79)
Co-governance × Age difference
0.287* (1.75)
0.047** (2.24)
Co-governance × Gender difference
0.747*** (2.59)
0.754*** (2.63)
Other variables
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Control
Observations
2,726
1,327
612
612
612
612
Adj. R2
0.107
0.173
0.129
0.130
0.131
0.190
Notes: ***p < 0.01, **p < 0.05, *p < 0.1; t-value is provided in the bracket; control variables are included, but not reported in the table.
382
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Robustness test regarding endogeneity. Given the potential problems of missing explana-
tory variables and reverse causality between dependent and explanatory variables,
our empirical analyses might be affected by endogeneity bias. We run propensity
score matching (PSM) analyses to assess the potential endogeneity bias in our study.
PSM allows biases in the estimate of the treatment effect to be removed by adjust-
ing for differences in the set of pretreatment covariates (Schilke & Lumineau,
2018). Using all control variables as pairing variables and also considering the
influences from time (year) and industry, we employed three matchings of 1:1
and 1:3 neighbor matchings as well as core matching to pair every treatment
firm with a firm from the control group to create a quasi-control group and ran-
domize the data (Zaefarian, Kadile, Henneberg, & Leischnig, 2017). As shown in
Table 8, the PSM analyses demonstrate that for the matched group, co-govern-
ance had a significant and positive effect on R&D intensity with coefficient
values at 0.91, 0.077, and 0.070, respectively. Following the same procedure, we
also tested the effects of the three moderator variables of kinship, age difference,
and gender, and the results were consistent, indicating that endogeneity is not a
concern for our data.
Extended robustness test: Co-governance, innovation investment, and firm performance. In order
to examine the nature of co-governance, we further tested the effects of co-govern-
ance as well as R&D intensity on firm performance, respectively. We
employed return on equity (ROE) and Tobin’s Q as two measures of firm perform-
ance. The results from Models 17 and 19 in Table 9 demonstrate that co-govern-
ance does not significantly influence firm performance measured either by ROE or
Tobin’s Q. This result suggests that co-governance does not necessarily lead to
improvement of firm performance, as it aims to facilitate a smooth succession of
the firm from the founder generation to the second generation, indicating the sup-
portive behavior of the founder generation to their succession generation. On the
other hand, as shown by the results from Models 18 and 20, R&D intensity has a
significant effect on firm performance measured either by ROE (β = 0.289, p <
0.05) or Tobin’s Q (β = 5.880, p < 0.01). These results suggest that through facili-
tating innovation activities, co-governance can indirectly influence firm perform-
ance, although it does not directly improve firm performance.
DISCUSSION
Having emerged during the reform and opening up of the Chinese economy,
Chinese family firms have experienced rapid development over the past 40
years, and many are reaching a phase of intergenerational succession. Co-govern-
ance of Chinese family firms is a common phenomenon in the intergenerational
succession process. Based on altruistic behavior motivated by ‘far-reaching’ paren-
tal love, our study examined the innovation activities during the intergenerational
succession period and identified co-governance as the mechanism to facilitate
383
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

innovation activities. Initiated by altruistic support from the founder to the succes-
sor generation, co-governance in the intergenerational succession period positively
affects innovation in order to facilitate a smooth succession. Moreover, this direct
link between co-governance and innovation activities is positively moderated by
three factors associated with parental altruistic behavior: kinship relationship,
age difference, and gender difference. More specifically, a parent–child kinship
relationship, a bigger age gap between the founder and successor, and a female
successor will trigger greater care and support from the founder generation, and
thus enhance the positive link between co-governance and innovation activities.
Moreover, a positive link between innovation activities and firm performance
Table 8. Results of PSM analysis for co-governance and R&D intensity
R&D intensity
1:1 matching
1:3 matching
Core matching
ATT
t-value
ATT
t-value
ATT
t-value
Co-governance
Unmatched
0.067**
2.02
0.067**
2.02
0.067**
2.02
Matched
0.091*
1.73
0.077**
2.22
0.070*
1.87
Notes: ***p < 0.01, **p < 0.05, *p < 0.1.
Table 9. Co-governance, innovation activities, and firm performance
Variables
ROE
ROE
Tobin’s Q
Tobin’s Q
Model 17
Model 18
Model 19
Model 20
Co-governance
0.182
0.022
(1.16)
(0.28)
R&D intensity
0.289**
5.880***
2.17
2.79
Firm age
0.035
0.012
0.103
0.137
(0.21)
(0.09)
(1.24)
(1.38)
Firm size
0.183*
0.248*
0.035***
0.032***
(1.86)
(1.90)
(10.55)
(9.59)
Dual
−0.114
−0.098
0.010
0.060
(−0.66)
(−0.46)
(1.13)
(0.59)
FSH
0.006
0.005
0.025
0.024
(0.22)
(0.18)
(1.40)
(1.30)
ESH
0.026
0.019
−0.008
−0.007
(0.89)
(0.78)
(−0.50)
(−0.49)
Indep
0.026
0.031
0.052
0.051
(0.27)
(0.33)
(0.93)
(0.92)
Constant
0.819***
0.765***
17.142***
17.823***
(6.68)
(6.16)
(15.13)
(11.36)
Year
Control
Control
Control
Control
Industry
Control
Control
Control
Control
Observations
4,694
4,694
4,694
4,694
Adj. R2
0.209
0.093
0.136
0.127
Notes: ***p < 0.01, **p < 0.05, *p < 0.1; t-value is provided in the bracket.
384
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

during the co-governance period demonstrates the effectiveness of the founder
generation’s support in achieving a smooth succession. On the other hand, our
results demonstrate that altruism-based co-governance leads to innovation differ-
entiation, resulting in a flow of resources to low-risk innovations, rather than
high-risk inventive innovations. This finding indicates that the altruistic support
toward the successor has its limitation in stimulating innovation, as it directs innov-
ation resources away from a more creative to more conservative innovation area.
Applying altruism as the theoretical approach to address this research gap,
our study contributes to the family firm intergenerational succession literature
by proposing it is the nature of founder–successor relationships underlying the suc-
cession process that has significant influence on firms’ innovation activities. Based
on family firms located in mature economies, prior research suggests intergenera-
tional succession is presented as an opportunity for reaffirmation of a strategic pos-
ition (Garcia et al., 2019; Gomez-Mejia et al., 2014; Miller & Le Breton-Miller,
2014). However, the strategic stability of the firm is much less likely to apply in
an emerging economy like China (Zhao et al., 2020). Our results demonstrate
that the founder–successor relationship is culture-bounded and more complex
than previous studies have suggested. In such circumstances, leadership succession
requires an alignment of the firm’s strategic position with the changes both internal
and external to the firm (Quigley & Hambrick, 2012).
Extending this line of research, our study examines the relationship between
co-governance as a transitional type of governance structure and resource commit-
ments to innovation of Chinese family firms. By doing so, we are the first to expli-
citly propose and empirically assess co-governance as a novel mechanism for the
hidden link between intergenerational succession and innovation activities, and
are the first to explain why family firms’ intergenerational co-governance is
more likely to enhance innovation activities than those without co-governance.
Innovation represents a challenging strategic activity for most family firms.
Although prior research has identified factors that facilitate or inhabit resource
commitments of family firms to innovation, research into how intergeneration suc-
cession as a unique issue of family firms affects innovation activities remains under-
explored and limited research results are conflicting (De Massis et al., 2015;
Richards et al., 2019). Given their heterogeneity, family firms can follow different
patterns of succession which may influence their innovation activities in different
ways. Our study attempts to address the gap by empirically investigating the inter-
play between intergenerational succession pattern and the resource commitments
to innovation activities. In line with the Chinese yin-yang philosophical perspec-
tive, we identify co-governance as a distinct intergenerational succession pattern
that provides a mechanism to balance change and continuity as two conflicting
strategic directions in the intergenerational succession process and thus solve the
change-continuity paradox. Parental altruistic support suggests a positive relation-
ship between co-governance and resource commitments to innovation activities for
the future take-over by the intra-family successor. Our empirical findings
385
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

contribute to the literature of family firm succession and innovation by suggesting
that it is the nature of co-governance underlying the founder–successor relation-
ship, rather than intergenerational succession per se that has a significant effect
on innovation activities as the strategic direction. As discussed below, the nature
of intra-family relationships was found to influence the extent to which the
founder provides parental altruistic support to the successor, which in turn
affects the strength of the positive link between co-governance and innovation
activities.
Prior research suggests that differences in kinship relationship and personal
experiences would lead to differentiation of interests and preferences among
members of the owning family, resulting in conflicts of interest and agency pro-
blems (Eddleston & Kidwell, 2012; Garcia et al., 2019; Schulze et al., 2003b;
Sharma, Chrisman, & Chua, 2003; Van den Berghe & Carchon, 2003).
Extending this line of research, empirical evidence from our study regarding the
moderating effects suggests that parental altruistic support to the next-generation
successors is contingent on the nature of the intra-family relationships between the
founder and successor, which include the kinship relationship, age difference, and
gender difference. That is to say, the alignment of interests among family members
and the associated altruistic parent support are more likely to occur between
nuclear family members and between members who share certain specific interper-
sonal relations. More specifically, conflicts of interest and agency problems are less
likely within a parent–child relationship, with a large age difference between the
incumbent and successor, and with female gender of the successor. These empirical
findings demonstrate that different types of family relationships within the owning
family can affect the efficiency of family firm governance by influencing strategic
decision-making regarding resource commitment to innovation activities.
Previous studies suggest that intergenerational succession affects innovation of
family firms, either positively (Kraiczy et al., 2015; Laforet, 2013) or negatively
(Block, 2012; Gomez-Mejia et al., 2019; Miller & Le Breton-Miller, 2014).
Responding to the recent call to acknowledge potential socio-emotional wealth
heterogeneity
within
family
firms
(Vandekerkhof,
Steijvers,
Hendriks,
&
Voordeckers, 2018), our study proposes that succession pattern with regard to
whether there is co-governance structure in the succession process is a key deter-
minant of innovation activities in the succession process. Thus, we identify co-gov-
ernance as a hidden link between intergenerational succession and innovation in
Chinese family firms. Our empirical evidence demonstrates that the connection
between intergenerational succession and innovation is deeper and much more
complex than prior research has shown. Specifically, the nature of intra-family
relationships is helpful to achieve a change-continuity balance in terms of innov-
ation as a strategic direction. The successor may bring in the drive for strategic
change to strengthen the firm’s competitive advantage in line with an increasingly
prosperous Chinese economy, whereas the founder can provide continuity given
his/her experience of reliance on the ability to benefit from the close ties with
386
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

business partners and governmental officials (Dou & Li, 2013). This insight is the-
oretically important not only because we are able to demonstrate that family firms
with co-governance are more heterogeneous in their innovation activities than
those without co-governance: rather, its theoretical implications include the atten-
tion this heterogeneity directs toward how parental altruistic support, in addition to
their overall importance and amount related to the family kinship of blood and
marriage, influences the behavior pattern of Chinese family firms.
Our empirical results regarding the effect of co-governance on innovation dif-
ferentiation have significant implications. These results demonstrate that while
parental altruistic support and a change-continuity balance lead to increased
resource commitments toward innovation activities, these resources mainly flow
to the incremental type of innovations, such as patents of utility models and
designs, which are useful but not fundamental to establish and improve the
firm’s competitiveness, rather than the more inventive type of innovations, based
on a consideration of different levels of risk involved. These results suggest that par-
ental altruistic support is likely to be emotion based, rather than rationally based,
reflecting a lack of deep-mindedness of paternalistic love.
Finally, we provide managerial implications for business practitioners. First,
our findings and discussion confirm the notion from existing research that the prep-
aration of intra-family successors for leadership positions is a long process.
Moreover, rather than being composed of distinct phases, the approach to succes-
sion planning in China’s family firms is more akin to an apprenticeship with suc-
cessors undergoing a practical experience by ‘learning on the job’. Our
conceptualization of co-governance highlights the importance of including a
next-generation member into the upper echelons or inner circle of the firm
where the successor is likely to experience significant ‘on the job’ learning oppor-
tunities and where she/he is likely to exhibit greater influence over strategic deci-
sion-making such as innovation, albeit under the watchful eye of the founder.
Thus, family firms should prepare their successors at an early stage to help them
develop and demonstrate their governing abilities sooner. Second, the moderating
effects confirmed in our study suggest that family firms should strengthen their stra-
tegic thinking of the role played by intra-family relationships in intergenerational
succession. Both the founder and successor should open their mind to building a
good personal relationship with high mutual respect and smooth flow of commu-
nication, and be soberly aware of the importance in achieving a change-continuity
balance with regard to innovation as one of the strategic directions. Early succes-
sion planning can facilitate the achievement of change-continuity balance, so that
the family firm can more effectively adapt to the dramatic changes in the business
environment with inclusion of new initiatives and skills from the successor while
preserving strategic stability by benefitting from the experience and social relation-
ship capital from the founder generation. Third, the detrimental effect of emotion-
based parental altruistic support on long-term sustainable competitiveness of the
firm warrants managerial attention. Controllers/managers of Chinese family
387
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

firms need to be aware of the shortcomings of emotion-based paternalistic love and
be mindful regarding paternalism-motivated parental support of the successor so
that founder–successor co-governance can result in the ‘co-creation’ of sustainable
competitiveness of the firm.
Limitations and Future Research Directions
Our study also has several limitations, which suggest directions for future research.
First, co-governance can be a long process and its potential influence on the stra-
tegic behavior of the firm may not be felt for several years. Given the relatively
short timeframe of the emergence of family firms in the Chinese economy, a major-
ity of Chinese family firms have not yet started nor completed the intergenerational
succession from the founder to the successor. As shown in Table 1, only a small
proportion of the firms included in our full sample have experienced a co-govern-
ance period. The influence of co-governance on strategic behavior of the firm may
take a long time to fully appear. Thus, access to longer-term sample data could be
helpful. Second, the phased succession that our study has documented may not
fully capture the lasting impact of founders on strategic behavior of the firm.
We measured co-governance by the two time points of (1) entry of the successor
to the TMT and (2) departure of the founder from the position of either chair
of the board or the CEO. However, a founder could still play an influential role
in firm governance in terms of its strategic behavior after they leave the top posi-
tions of the firm, even if they do not have an official title in the firm, especially in
the context of Chinese society. This lasting impact of the founder needs to be
included in future studies of intergenerational succession.
NOTES
This study is financially supported by grants from the Natural Science Foundation of China
(No: 71810107002; 71672196; 71602195), the Guangdong Philosophy and Social Science
Foundation (GD20CGL48), and the Center for Cantonese Merchants Research (21YZB005).
REFERENCES
Acharya, V., & Xu, Z. 2017. Financial dependence and innovation: The case of public versus private
firms. Journal of Financial Economics, 124(2): 223–243.
Akhmedova, A., Cavallotti, R., Marimon, F., & Campopiano, G. 2020. Daughters’ careers in family
business: Motivation types and family-specific barriers. Journal of Family Business
Strategy, 11(3): 100307.
Anderson, R. C., & Reeb, D. M. 2003. Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence
from the S&P 500. The Journal of Finance, 58(3): 1301–1328.
Andreoni, J., & Vesterlund, L. 2001. Which is the fair sex? Gender differences in altruism. The
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 116(1): 293–312.
Baron, R. A. 2008. The role of affect in the entrepreneurial process. Academy of Management
Review, 33(2): 328–340.
388
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Bennedsen, M., Nielsen, K. M., Pérez-González, F., & Wolfenzon, D. 2007. Inside the family firm:
The role of families in succession decisions and performance. The Quarterly Journal of
Economics, 122(2): 647–691.
Berrone, P., Cruz, C., & Gomez-Mejia, L. R. 2012. Socioemotional wealth in family firms:
Theoretical dimensions, assessment approaches, and agenda for future research. Family
Business Review, 25(3): 258–279.
Berrone, P., Cruz, C., Gomez-Mejia, L. R., & Larraza-Kintana, M. 2010. Socioemotional wealth
and corporate responses to institutional pressures: Do family-controlled firms pollute less?
Administrative Science Quarterly, 55(1): 82–113.
Block, J. H. 2012. R&D investments in family and founder firms: An agency perspective. Journal of
Business Venturing, 27(2): 248–265.
Brigham, K. H., Lumpkin, G. T., Payne, G. T., & Zachary, M. A. 2014. Researching long-term
orientation: A validation study and recommendations for future research. Family Business
Review, 27(1): 72–88.
Brown, A. L., & Lahey, J. N. 2015. Small victories: Creating intrinsic motivation in task completion
and debt repayment. Journal of Marketing Research, 52(6): 768–783.
Brown, G., Lawrence, T. B., & Robinson, S. L. 2005. Territoriality in organizations. Academy of
Management Review, 30(3): 577–594.
Brush, C. G. 1992. Research on women business owners: Past trends, a new perspective and future
directions. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 16(4): 5–30.
Cabrera-Suárez, K., De Saá-Pérez, P., & García-Almeida, D. 2001. The succession process from
a resource-and knowledge-based view of the family firm. Family Business Review, 14(1):
37–48.
Cadieux, L., Lorrain, J., & Hugron, P. 2002. Succession in women-owned family businesses: A case
study. Family Business Review, 15(1): 17–30.
Calabrò, A., Minichilli, A., Amore, M. D., & Brogi, M. 2018. The courage to choose! Primogeniture
and leadership succession in family firms. Strategic Management Journal, 39(7):
2014–2035.
Cao, J., Cumming, D., & Wang, X. 2015. One-child policy and family firms in China. Journal of
Corporate Finance, 33: 317–329.
Carless, S. A., & De Paola, C. 2000. The measurement of cohesion in work teams. Small Group
Research, 31(1): 71–88.
Carson, J. B., Tesluk, P. E., & Marrone, J. A. 2007. Shared leadership in teams: An investigation of
antecedent conditions and performance. Academy of Management Journal, 50(5): 1217–1234.
Chen, M. J. 2002. Transcending paradox: The Chinese ‘middle way’ perspective. Asia Pacific
Journal of Management, 19(2–3): 179–199.
Chen, S., Fang, H. C., MacKenzie, N. G., Carter, S., Chen, L., & Wu, B. 2018. Female leadership in
contemporary Chinese family firms. Asia Pacific Journal of Management, 35(1): 181–211.
Cheng, B. S., Chou, L. F., Wu, T. Y., Huang, M. P., & Farh, J. L. 2004. Paternalistic leadership and
subordinate responses: Establishing a leadership model in Chinese organizations. Asian
Journal of Social Psychology, 7(1): 89–117.
Chrisman, J. J., & Patel, P. C. 2012. Variations in R&D investments of family and non-family firms:
Behavioral agency and myopic loss aversion perspectives. Academy of Management
Journal, 55(4): 976–997.
Chrisman, J. J., Chua, J. H., & Sharma, P. 2005. Trends and directions in the development of a stra-
tegic management theory of the family firm. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 29(5):
555–575.
Chrisman, J. J., Chua, J. H., & Zahra, S. A. 2003. Creating wealth in family firms through managing
resources: Comments and extensions. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 27(4):
359–365.
Chrisman, J. J., Chua, J. H., Kellermanns, F. W., & Chang, E. P. 2007. Are family managers agents
or stewards? An exploratory study in privately held family firms. Journal of Business
Research, 60(10): 1030–1038.
Chung, C. N., & Luo, X. 2008. Human agents, contexts, and institutional change: The decline of
family in the leadership of business groups. Organization Science, 19(1): 124–142.
Coad, A., & Rao, R. 2011. The firm-level employment effects of innovations in high-tech US manu-
facturing industries. Journal of Evolutionary Economics, 21(2): 255–283.
Craig, J., & Dibrell, C. 2006. The natural environment, innovation, and firm performance: A com-
parative study. Family Business Review, 19(4): 275–288.
389
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Cucculelli, M., & Micucci, G. 2008. Family succession and firm performance: Evidence from Italian
family firms. Journal of Corporate Finance, 14(1): 17–31.
Cucculelli, M., Le Breton-Miller, I., & Miller, D. 2016. Product innovation, firm renewal and family
governance. Journal of Family Business Strategy, 7(2): 90–104.
Darity, W. A. 2008. International encyclopedia of the social sciences, vol. 8: 7–88. Detroit:
Macmillan Reference.
Davis, P. S., & Harveston, P. D. 1998. The influence of family on the family business succession
process: A multi-generational perspective. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 22(3):
31–53.
Dawson, A., Sharma, P., Irving, P. G., Marcus, J., & Chirico, F. 2015. Predictors of later-generation
family members’ commitment to family enterprises. Entrepreneurship Theory and
Practice, 39(3): 545–569.
De Dreu, C. K., & Van Vianen, A. E. 2001. Managing relationship conflict and the effectiveness of
organizational teams. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 22(3): 309–328.
De Massis, A., Chua, J. H., & Chrisman, J. J. 2008. Factors preventing intra-family succession.
Family Business Review, 21(2): 183–199.
De Massis, A., Di Minin, A., & Frattini, F. 2015. Family-driven innovation: Resolving the paradox in
family firms. California Management Review, 58(1): 5–19.
De Massis, A., Kotlar, J., Mazzola, P., Minola, T., & Sciascia, S. 2018. Conflicting selves: Family
owners’ multiple goals and self-control agency problems in private firms. Entrepreneurship
Theory and Practice, 42(3): 362–389.
Deng, X. 2015. Father-daughter succession in China: Facilitators and challenges. Journal of
Family Business Management, 5(1): 38–54.
Devers, C. E., McNamara, G., Wiseman, R. M., & Arrfelt, M. 2008. Moving closer to the action:
Examining compensation design effects on firm risk. Organizational Science, 19(4): 548–566.
Diaz-Moriana, V., Clinton, E., Kammerlander, N., Lumpkin, G. T., & Craig, J. B. 2020. Innovation
motives in family firms: A transgenerational view. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice,
44(2): 256–278.
D’Innocenzo, L., Mathieu, J. E., & Kukenberger, M. R. 2016. A meta-analysis of different forms of
shared leadership–team performance relations. Journal of Management, 42(7): 1964–1991.
Dou, J., & Li, S. 2013. The succession process in Chinese family firms: A guanxi perspective. Asia
Pacific Journal of Management, 30(3): 893–917.
Duran, P., Kammerlander, N., Van Essen, M., & Zellweger, T. 2016. Doing more with less:
Innovation input and output in family firms. Academy of Management Journal, 59(4):
1224–1264.
Dyer, W. G. Jr., & Sánchez, M. 1998. Current state of family business theory and practice as reflected
in Family Business Review 1988–1997. Family Business Review, 11(4): 287–295.
Eddleston, K. A., & Kellermanns, F. W. 2007. Destructive and productive family relationships: A
stewardship theory perspective. Journal of Business Venturing, 22(4): 545–565.
Eddleston, K. A., & Kidwell, R. E. 2012. Parent–child relationships: Planting the seeds of deviant
behavior in the family firm. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 36(2): 369–386.
Ensley, M. D., & Pearson, A. W. 2005. An exploratory comparison of the behavioral dynamics of top
management teams in family and nonfamily new ventures: Cohesion, conflict, potency, and con-
sensus. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 29(3): 267–284.
Fei, X. 1948. The local China. Shanghai: China Observation Press.
Ferrari, F. 2019. In the mother’s shadow: Exploring power dynamics in family business succession.
Gender in Management: An International Journal, 34(2): 121–139.
Fiese, B. H., & Skillman, G. 2000. Gender differences in family stories: Moderating influence of
parent gender role and child gender. Sex Roles, 43(5–6): 267–283.
Gal, D., & McShane, B. B. 2012. Can small victories help win the war? Evidence from consumer debt
management. Journal of Marketing Research, 49(4): 487–501.
Galperti, S., & Strulovici, B. 2017. A theory of intergenerational altruism. Econometrica, 85(4):
1175–1218.
Garcia, P. R. J. M., Sharma, P., De Massis, A., Wright, M., & Scholes, L. 2019. Perceived parental
behaviors and next-generation engagement in family firms: A social cognitive perspective.
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 43(2): 224–243.
Gentry, R., Dibrell, C., & Kim, J. 2016. Long-term orientation in publicly traded family businesses:
Evidence of a dominant logic. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 40(4): 733–757.
390
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Gersick, K. E., Davis, J. A., Hampton, M. M., & Lansberg, I. 1997. Generation to generation:
Life cycles of the family business. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Business School Press.
Gilding, M., Gregory, S., & Cosson, B. 2015. Motives and outcomes in family business succession
planning. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 39(2): 299–312.
Glauben, T., Petrick, M., Tietje, H., & Weiss, C. 2009. Probability and timing of succession or
closure in family firms: A switching regression analysis of farm households in Germany.
Applied Economics, 41(1): 45–54.
Glover, J. L. 2014. Gender, power and succession in family farm business. International Journal
of Gender and Entrepreneurship, 6(3): 276–295.
Gomez-Mejia, L. R., Makri, M., & Larraza-Kintana, M. 2010. Diversification decisions in family
controlled firms. Journal of Management Studies, 47(2): 223–252.
Gomez-Mejia, L. R., Neacsu, I., & Martin, G. 2019. CEO risk-taking and socioemotional wealth:
The behavioral agency model, family control, and CEO option wealth. Journal of
Management, 45(4): 1713–1738.
Gómez-Mejía, L. R., Haynes, K. T., Núñez-Nickel, M., Jacobson, K. J., & Moyano-Fuentes, J. 2007.
Socioemotional wealth and business risks in family-controlled firms: Evidence from Spanish
olive oil mills. Administrative Science Quarterly, 52(1): 106–137.
Gomez-Mejia, L. R., Campbell, J. T., Martin, G., Hoskisson, R. E., Makri, M., & Sirmon, D. G.
2014. Socioemotional wealth as a mixed gamble: Revisiting family firm R&D investments
with the behavioral agency model. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 38(6):
1351–1374.
Grote, J. 2003. Conflicting generations: A new theory of family business rivalry. Family Business
Review, 16(2): 113–124.
Guo, B., Pérez-Castrillo, D., & Toldrà-Simats, A. 2019. Firms’ innovation strategy under the shadow
of analyst coverage. Journal of Financial Economics, 131(2): 456–483.
Habbershon, T. G., Williams, M., & MacMillan, I. C. 2003. A unified systems perspective of family
firm performance. Journal of Business Venturing, 18(4): 451–465.
Haberman, H., & Danes, S. M. 2007. Father-daughter and father-son family business management
transfer comparison: Family FIRO model application. Family Business Review, 20(2):
163–184.
Hauck, J., & Prügl, R. 2015. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family
firms: An empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family
Business Strategy, 6(2): 104–118.
Hauck, J., Suess-Reyes, J., Beck, S., Prügl, R., & Frank, H. 2016. Measuring socioemotional wealth in
family-owned and-managed firms: A validation and short form of the FIBER Scale. Journal of
Family Business Strategy, 7(3): 133–148.
He, J. J., & Tian, X. 2013. The dark side of analyst coverage: The case of innovation. Journal of
Financial Economics, 109(3): 856–878.
Hollander, B. S., & Bukowitz, W. R. 1990. Women, family culture, and family business. Family
Business Review, 3(2): 139–151.
Hytti, U., Alsos, G. A., Heinonen, J., & Ljunggren, E. 2017. Navigating the family business: A gen-
dered analysis of identity construction of daughters. International Small Business Journal,
35(6): 665–686.
Jaskiewicz, P., Combs, J. G., & Rau, S. B. 2015. Entrepreneurial legacy: Toward a theory of how
some family firms nurture transgenerational entrepreneurship. Journal of Business
Venturing, 30(1): 29–49.
Jehn, K. A. 1997. A qualitative analysis of conflict types and dimensions in organizational groups.
Administrative Science Quarterly, 42(3): 530–557.
Karra, N., Tracey, P., & Phillips, N. 2006. Altruism and agency in the family firm: Exploring the role
of family, kinship, and ethnicity. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 30(6): 861–877.
Kellermanns, F. W., & Eddleston, K. A. 2004. Feuding families: When conflict does a family firm
good. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 28(3): 209–228.
Kellermanns, F. W., Eddleston, K. A., Sarathy, R., & Murphy, F. 2012. Innovativeness in family
firms: A family influence perspective. Small Business Economics, 38(1): 85–101.
Kimhi, A., & Nachlieli, N. 2001. Intergenerational succession on Israeli family farms. Journal of
Agricultural Economics, 52(2): 42–58.
Kraiczy, N. D., Hack, A., & Kellermanns, F. W. 2015. What makes a family firm innovative? CEO
risk-taking propensity and the organizational context of family firms. Journal of Product
Innovation Management, 32(3): 334–348.
391
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Kubíček, A., & Machek, O. 2019. Gender-related factors in family business succession: A systematic
literature review. Review of Managerial Science, 13: 963–1002.
Laforet, S. 2013. Innovation characteristics of young and old family-owned businesses. Journal of
Small Business and Enterprise Development, 20(1): 204–224.
Lambrecht, J. 2005. Multigenerational transition in family businesses: A new explanatory model.
Family Business Review, 18(4): 267–282.
Le Breton-Miller, I., Miller, D., & Steier, L. P. 2004. Toward an integrative model of effective FOB
succession. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 28(4): 305–328.
Li, P. P. 2012. Toward an integrative framework of indigenous research: The geocentric implications
of Yin-Yang balance. Asia Pacific Journal of Management, 29(4): 849–872.
Li, P. P. 2014. The unique value of Yin-Yang balancing: A critical response. Management and
Organization Review, 10(2): 321–332.
Li, P. P. 2015. Both converging toward and diverging from global paradigms: The perspective of Yin-
Yang balancing for the unity-in-diversity duality. Management and Organization Review,
11(4): 807–813.
Li, X. 2002. Trust, loyalty and the predicament that clannishness is in. Management World, 6:
87–93, +133 (Published in Chinese).
Lubatkin, M. H., Ling, Y., & Schulze, W. S. 2007. An organizational justice-based view of self-control
and agency costs in family firms. Journal of Management Studies, 44(6): 955–971.
Lubatkin, M. H., Schulze, W. S., Ling, Y., & Dino, R. N. 2005. The effects of parental altruism on the
governance of family-managed firms. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 26(3): 313–330.
Lumpkin, G. T., & Brigham, K. H. 2011. Long-term orientation and intertemporal choice in family
firms. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 35(6): 1149–1169.
Mathew, V. 2016. Women and family business succession in Asia–Characteristics, challenges and
chauvinism. International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Small Business, 27(2–
3): 410–424.
McDermott, C. M., & O’Connor, G. C. 2002. Managing radical innovation: An overview of emer-
gent strategy issues. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 19(6): 424–438.
Michel, A., & Kammerlander, N. 2015. Trusted advisors in a family business’s succession-planning
process: An agency perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy, 6(1): 45–57.
Miller, D., & Le Breton-Miller, I. 2005. Management insights from great and struggling family busi-
nesses. Long Range Planning, 38(6): 517–530.
Miller, D., & Le Breton-Miller, I. 2006. Family governance and firm performance: Agency, steward-
ship, and capabilities. Family Business Review, 19(1): 73–87.
Miller, D., & Le Breton-Miller, I. 2014. Deconstructing socioemotional wealth. Entrepreneurship
Theory and Practice, 38(4): 713–720.
Morck, R., & Yeung, B. 2003. Agency problems in large family business groups. Entrepreneurship
Theory and Practice, 27(4): 367–382.
Morgan, T. J., & Gomez-Mejia, L. R. 2014. Hooked on a feeling: The affective component of socio-
emotional wealth in family firms. Journal of Family Business Strategy, 5(3): 280–288.
Mussolino, D., Cicellin, M., Iacono, M. P., Consiglio, S., & Martinez, M. 2019. Daughters’ self-posi-
tioning in family business succession: A narrative inquiry. Journal of Family Business
Strategy, 10(2): 72–86.
Overbeke, K. K., Bilimoria, D., & Perelli, S. 2013. The dearth of daughter successors in family busi-
nesses: Gendered norms, blindness to possibility, and invisibility. Journal of Family Business
Strategy, 4(3): 201–212.
Pearce, C. L., & Conger, J. A. 2002. Shared leadership: Reframing the hows and whys of
leadership. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications.
Peng, M. W., Sun, W., Vlas, C., Minichilli, A., & Corbetta, G. 2018. An institution-based view of
large family firms: A recap and overview. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 42(2):
187–205.
Piperopoulos, P., Wu, J., & Wang, C. 2018. Outward FDI, location choices and innovation perform-
ance of emerging market enterprises. Research Policy, 47(1): 232–240.
Qiu, H., & Freel, M. 2020. Managing family-related conflicts in family businesses: A review and
research agenda. Family Business Review, 33(1): 90–113.
Quigley, T. J., & Hambrick, D. C. 2012. When the former CEO stays on as board chair: Effects on
successor discretion, strategic change, and performance. Strategic Management Journal, 33
(7): 834–859.
392
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Ren, S., Eisingerich, A. B., & Tsai, H. T. 2015. How do marketing, research and development cap-
abilities, and degree of internationalization synergistically affect the innovation performance of
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)? A panel data study of Chinese SMEs.
International Business Review, 24(4): 642–651.
Richards, M., Kammerlander, N., & Zellweger, T. 2019. Listening to the heart or the head?
Exploring the ‘willingness versus ability’ succession dilemma. Family Business Review, 32
(4): 330–353.
Roed, I. 2016. Disentangling the family firm’s innovation process: A systematic review. Journal of
Family Business Strategy, 7(3): 185–201.
Rondi, E., De Massis, A., & Kotlar, J. 2019. Unlocking innovation potential: A typology of family
business innovation postures and the critical role of the family system. Journal of Family
Business Strategy, 10(4): 100236.
Sardeshmukh, S. R., & Corbett, A. C. 2011. The duality of internal and external development
of successors: Opportunity recognition in family firms. Family Business Review, 24(2):
111–125.
Schilke, O., & Lumineau, F. 2018. The double-edged effect of contracts on alliance performance.
Journal of Management, 44(7): 2827–2858.
Schulze, W. S., Lubatkin, M. H., & Dino, R. N. 2003a. Toward a theory of agency and altruism in
family firms. Journal of Business Venturing, 18(4): 473–491.
Schulze, W. S., Lubatkin, M. H., & Dino, R. N. 2003b. Exploring the agency consequences of own-
ership dispersion among the directors of private family firms. Academy of Management
Journal, 46(2): 179–194.
Schulze, W. S., Lubatkin, M. H., Dino, R. N., & Buchholtz, A. K. 2001. Agency relationships in
family firms: Theory and evidence. Organization Science, 12(2): 99–116.
Schwartz, S. H., & Rubel, T. 2005. Sex differences in value priorities: Cross-cultural and multi-
method studies. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 89(6): 1010–1028.
Serban, A., & Roberts, A. J. 2016. Exploring antecedents and outcomes of shared leadership in a cre-
ative context: A mixed-methods approach. The Leadership Quarterly, 27(2): 181–199.
Sharma, P., Chrisman, J. J., & Chua, J. H. 2003. Succession planning as planned behavior: Some
empirical results. Family Business Review, 16(1): 1–15.
Shi, H. X., Graves, C., & Barbera, F. 2019. Intergenerational succession and internationalisation
strategy of family SMEs: Evidence from China. Long Range Planning, 52(4): 101838.
Smythe, J., & Sardeshmukh, S. R. 2013. Fathers and daughters in family business. Small
Enterprise Research, 20(2): 98–109.
Stark, O. 1995. Altruism and beyond: An economic analysis of transfers within families
and groups. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
van Aaken, D., Rost, K., & Seidl, D. 2017. The substitution of governance mechanisms in the evo-
lution of family firms. Long Range Planning, 50(6): 826–839.
Van Buren, B., & Safferstone, T. 2009. The quick wins paradox. Harvard Business Review, 87
(1): 54–61.
Vandekerkhof, P., Steijvers, T., Hendriks, W., & Voordeckers, W. 2018. Socio-emotional wealth sep-
aration and decision-making quality in family firm TMTs: The moderating role of psychological
safety. Journal of Management Studies, 55(4): 648–676.
Van den Berghe, L. A., & Carchon, S. 2003. Agency relations within the family business system: An
exploratory approach. Corporate Governance: An International Review, 11(3): 171–179.
Vera, C. F., & Dean, M. A. 2005. An examination of the challenges daughters face in family business
succession. Family Business Review, 18(4): 321–345.
Villalonga, B., & Amit, R. 2006. How do family ownership, control and management affect firm
value? Journal of Financial Economics, 80(2): 385–417.
Wei, C., & Chen, L. 2015. Altruistic behaviour in the CEO succession process of family firms.
Management World, 3: 137–150 (Published in Chinese).
Wu, J., Wang, C., Hong, J., Piperopoulos, P., & Zhuo, S. 2016. Internationalization and innovation
performance of emerging market enterprises: The role of host-country institutional develop-
ment. Journal of World Business, 51(2): 251–263.
Zacher, H., Schmitt, A., & Gielnik, M. M. 2012. Stepping into my shoes: Generativity as a mediator
of the relationship between business owners’ age and family succession. Ageing & Society, 32
(4): 673–696.
Zaefarian, G., Kadile, V., Henneberg, S. C., & Leischnig, A. 2017. Endogeneity bias in marketing
research: Problem, causes and remedies. Industrial Marketing Management, 65: 39–46.
393
A Far‐Reaching Parental Love?
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press

Zahra, S. A. 2003. International expansion of U.S. manufacturing family businesses: The effect of
ownership and involvement. Journal of Business Venturing, 18(4): 495–512.
Zellweger, T. M. 2007. Time horizon, costs of equity capital, and generic investment strategies of
firms. Family Business Review, 20(1): 1–15.
Zellweger, T. M., Kellermanns, F. W., Chrisman, J. J., & Chua, J. H. 2012. Family control and family
firm valuation by family CEOs: The importance of intentions for transgenerational control.
Organization Science, 23(3): 851–868.
Zellweger, T. M., Nason, R. S., & Nordqvist, M. 2011. From longevity of firms to transgenerational
entrepreneurship
of
families:
Introducing
family
entrepreneurial
orientation.
Family
Business Review, 25(2): 136–155.
Zhao, J., Carney, M., Zhang, S., & Zhu, L. 2020. How does an intra-family succession effect strategic
change and performance in China’s family firms? Asia Pacific Journal of Management, 37:
363–389.
Zhu, Z., Li, X., & Ye, W. 2018. Helping to get onto horseback and escorting for a while: An empirical
study of intergenerational succession and strategy change from perspective of paternalism.
Management World, 18: 65–79 (Published in Chinese).
Zhenduo Zhu (zhuzhenduo2005@163.com) obtained his PhD in manage-
ment in 2014 and worked as a research associate at Sun Yat-sen University,
China. He is currently an Associate Professor in the Business School,
Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, China. His research interests are
mainly in the field of family business succession and innovation. He has success-
fully gained competitive research funds from NSFC, Ministry of Education
Humanities, and Social Sciences Youth Fund Projects, etc. He has published
more than ten papers in Management World and other major Chinese journals.
Yuanfei Kang (y.kang@massey.ac.nz) is a Senior Lecturer of International
Business at Massey University, New Zealand. He holds a PhD from the
University of Auckland, New Zealand. He held a faculty position for more
than ten years at School of Economics, Peking University, China. His research
focuses on international business. He has published in leading international
journals such as Journal of World Business, International Business Review,
Management and Organization Review, Industrial Management & Data Systems, and
Journal of Multinational Financial Management.
Manuscript received:
August 16, 2019
Final version accepted: April 26, 2021 (number of revisions – 4)
394
Z. Zhu and Y. Kang
© The Author(s), 2021. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The International Association for
Chinese Management Research
https://doi.org/10.1017/mor.2021.45 Published online by Cambridge University Press
