Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in
family ﬁrms: An empirical study from a socioemotional wealth
perspective
Jana Hauck a,b,*, Reinhard Pru¨ gl a,b,1
a Zeppelin University, Friedrichshafen Institute for Family Entrepreneurship (FIF), Am Seemooser Horn 20, 88045 Friedrichshafen, Germany
b Zeppelin University, Zeppelin University, Chair of Innovation, Technology & Entrepreneurship, Am Seemooser Horn 20, 88045 Friedrichshafen, Germany
Introduction
Innovation leads to the development of competitive advan-
tages (Porter, 1990) and serves as a key driver of (family)
ﬁrm performance (Kellermanns, Eddleston, Sarathy, & Murphy,
2012) as well as the long-term survival of (family) ﬁrms
(Schumpeter, 1934). Innovation activities in this sense are,
broadly speaking, a way to adapt to changes and to exploit
changes as entrepreneurial opportunities (Craig & Dibrell, 2006;
Drucker, 1985).2 In the context of family ﬁrms3 and their vision
to succeed across multiple generations, the need for long-term
survival through innovation becomes even more evident (Cruz &
Nordqvist, 2012).
Given the pivotal role of innovation activities for long-term ﬁrm
survival as well as the utmost importance of family ﬁrms around the
world (La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes, & Shleifer, 1999; Villalonga &
Amit, 2009), it is actually surprising that our knowledge of
innovation in family ﬁrms remains incomplete and inconsistent.
On the one hand, family ﬁrms are often described as resistant to
change, conservative, and traditional (Dunn, 1996; Hall, Melin, &
Nordqvist, 2004). On the other hand, there is a ‘‘mysterious
something’’ about family ﬁrms that may support their innovation
activities (Gudmundson, Tower, & Hartman, 2003, p. 15) and makes
them a driver of, e.g., technological innovation (Zahra, 2005). In fact,
we see that there exist many highly innovative family ﬁrms, even in
non-technology industries. Take, for example, Spa Hotel Post in
Bezau (Austria), which was founded as a post ofﬁce in 1850 and is
now a large and luxurious spa and design hotel led by Susanne
Kaufmann (ﬁfth generation) with a gourmet restaurant awarded
with a Gault Millau chef’s hat.4 The Kaufmann family intentionally
Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
A R T I C L E 
I N F O
Article history:
Received 31 December 2013
Received in revised form 8 October 2014
Accepted 4 November 2014
Keywords:
Family ﬁrms
Innovation
Leadership succession
Socioemotional wealth
Intergenerational business transfer
CEO transition
Tourism industry
A B S T R A C T
We reason that the intra-family leadership succession phase has distinct characteristics that render it a
peculiar time frame for innovation. However, the incumbent owner-manager’s willingness to support
innovation during that phase is of decisive importance. Building on this argument, the article provides an
investigation of how socioemotional factors are related to the owner-manager’s perception of the intra-family
leadership succession phase as an opportunity for innovation activities in family ﬁrms. We use quantitative
data from a unique research setting in which family inﬂuence in terms of ownership and management, and
thus the ability to innovate, as well as major contextual variables were heldconstant. Overall,the results of our
study show that socioemotional factors have both dark and bright sides in the context of innovation. In
particular, we ﬁnd that family adaptability and a family member’s closeness to the ﬁrm are positively
associated with perceiving the succession phase as an opportunity for innovation. On the contrary,
intergenerational authority and the history of family bonds are negatively related with the perception of the
succession phase as a suitable time frame for innovation. Our ﬁndings primarily contribute to the literature on
innovation and succession in family ﬁrms and emphasize the inherent heterogeneity of family ﬁrm behavior.
 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Corresponding author. Tel.: +49 7541 6009 2080; fax: +49 7541 6009 1299.
E-mail addresses: jana.hauck@zu.de (J. Hauck), reinhard.pruegl@zu.de (R. Pru¨gl).
1 Tel.: +49 7541 6009 1283; fax: +49 7541 6009 1299.
2 We follow the Schumpeterian deﬁnition of innovation as the commercialization
of new products and services, new processes, new organizational structures, and
new business models (Schumpeter, 1934).
3 We apply a narrow deﬁnition provided by Chua, Chrisman, and Sharma (1999):
A family ﬁrm is ‘‘a business governed and [. . .] managed with the intention to shape
and pursue the vision of the business held by a dominant coalition controlled by
members of the same family or a small number of families in a manner that is
potentially sustainable across generations of the family or families’’ (p. 25).
4 Information on Spa Hotel Post was gathered on the family ﬁrm’s website
(http://www.hotelpostbezau.com) and in an interview with Susanne Kaufmann.
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Family Business Strategy
jou r nal h o mep ag e: w ww .elsevier .co m /loc ate/jfb s
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jfbs.2014.11.002
1877-8585/ 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

seized the last succession phase for innovation: Susanne engaged in
product 
and 
service 
innovations, 
renewed 
processes 
and
even developed new business models. However, it was only possible
for her to pursue innovation activities because the incumbent
owner-manager supported her in the daily business and inten-
tionally granted freedom of discretion to Susanne. Certainly, the
owner-manager’s perception of the succession phase as a unique
chance for innovation was a crucial factor in preparing the family
ﬁrm for the future. What would have happened if the owner-
manager did not perceive the succession phase as an opportunity for
renewal and innovation? Could the heterogeneous innovation
behavior of family ﬁrms be explained by the willingness rather than
the ability to innovate?
This question is taken up by the recently introduced ‘Ability and
Willingness Paradox’ (De Massis, Kotlar, Chua, & Chrisman, 2014;
Chrisman et al., in press). The authors postulate that due to
concentrated family ownership and the family owners’ power to
control resources, family ﬁrms have an unusual ability to innovate.
However, family ﬁrms have various levels of willingness to
innovate that may impede or support innovation activities. The
willingness to innovate is driven by non-economic or socio-
emotional factors (Chrisman et al., in press; Chrisman & Patel,
2012). In sum, the ‘Ability and Willingness Paradox’ is an
unpretentious but very powerful framework in explaining the
heterogeneous innovation behavior of family ﬁrms by integrating
non-economic factors and the willingness view next to the
predominant ability view in existing research. Some previous
studies indeed compare willingness with ability and describe the
dilemma between these two views of innovation (e.g., Chrisman &
Patel, 2012). However, existing studies fail to recognize that
different non-economic factors may have different effects on the
willingness to innovate. Thus, this article focuses on the relation-
ship between various non-economic factors and the willingness to
innovate during the intra-family leadership succession phase.
As shown in the aforementioned example of the Austrian
tourism industry,5 the time frame of succession might have
distinct characteristics that render it a peculiar time frame for
innovation. Accordingly, this article addresses the following
research question: How are socioemotional factors related to
owner-managers’ perceptions of the suitability of the intra-family
leadership succession phase for innovation activities in family ﬁrms
(the willingness to innovate)? To answer this question and to test
our hypotheses, we conducted a quantitative survey among the
owner-managers of family ﬁrms in the Austrian tourism industry.
We show that non-economic factors can be both positively and
negatively related to the willingness to innovate in terms of owner-
managers’ perceptions of the suitability of the intra-family
leadership succession phase for innovation.
Prior research on innovation in family ﬁrms does not fully
address the time frame of intra-family leadership succession
despite the obvious relevance of this topic.6 Thus, our ﬁrst
contribution is to address this research gap in the literature on
innovation and succession in family ﬁrms. Second, we conﬁrm the
usefulness of considering non-economic factors as drivers of family
ﬁrm behavior. Although we argue that the time frame of leadership
succession may be a peculiar time frame for family ﬁrms to
innovate, different non-economic factors may affect the willing-
ness to innovate and thereby help to explain the heterogeneity of
family ﬁrm innovation behavior (Chrisman et al., in press). In order
to account for non-economic factors, the theoretical framework of
socioemotional wealth (SEW) has recently gained attention (e.g.,
Berrone, Cruz, & Go´mez-Mejı´a, 2012; Go´mez-Mejı´a, Haynes,
Nu´ n˜ez-Nickel, Jacobson, & Moyano-Fuentes, 2007). Although it
is widely acknowledged that family ﬁrms are a heterogeneous
population (e.g., Chrisman, Chua, Pearson, & Barnett, 2012; Basco,
2013; Ko¨nig, Kammerlander, & Enders, 2013) as a result of the
inherent heterogeneity of families and their unique goal set (Dyer
& Dyer, 2009; Kotlar & De Massis, 2013), the majority of prior
studies oversimpliﬁes the world by measuring merely potential
family inﬂuence via ownership and management as a proxy for
SEW (Miller & Le Breton-Miller, 2014). Moreover, we contribute to
the recent discussion on the dark and bright sides of SEW
(Kellermanns, Eddleston, & Zellweger, 2012; Miller & Le Breton-
Miller, 2014; Naldi, Cennamo, Corbetta, & Go´mez-Mejı´a, 2013).
Third, we conﬁrm and even extend the notion of the heterogeneity
of family ﬁrms caused by different non-economic factors: Despite
intentionally maintaining family inﬂuence via ownership and
management, or the ability to innovate, as well as major contextual
factors constant in our research setting, we still observe high levels
of heterogeneity in our dependent variable.
The article is organized as follows. We begin with a brief
literature review on innovation in family ﬁrms and discuss why the
succession process is a peculiar time frame for innovation. Next,
we introduce SEW, on whose various aspects we develop our ﬁve
hypotheses. Subsequently, we present our methodology as well as
the ﬁndings of the study at hand. We conclude by discussing our
results.
Background
Innovation in family ﬁrms
Despite increasing scholarly interest in the topic of innovation in
family ﬁrms, our understanding is still incomplete and inconsistent
(De Massis, Frattini, & Lichtenthaler, 2013). Some studies, such as
Craig and Moores (2006) or Bergfeld and Weber (2011), stress the
great importance that family ﬁrms attach to innovation in order to
ensure long-term survival. Other studies, such as Dunn (1996), state
that family ﬁrms are traditional and conservative rather than
innovative and creative. Moreover, these studies ascribe family
ﬁrms a hesitant attitude toward opening their boundaries, e.g.,
toward external sources or collaborations (Classen, Van Gils,
Bammens, & Carree, 2012). The inconsistency of ﬁndings has
recently been addressed by De Massis et al. (2014) as well as
Chrisman et al. (in press) by introducing the ‘Ability and
Willingness Paradox.’ This paradox is manifested by family ﬁrms
innovating less despite having the ability to do more. The
(un-)willingness to innovate is considered to originate from
non-economic factors, e.g., risk aversion, the hesitancy to share
control, or the commitment to traditional products (Chrisman et al.,
in press). For example, Chrisman and Patel (2012) show that family
ﬁrm owners have the ability to commit a superior level of resources
to R&D (in comparison to non-family ﬁrms) – but most are not
willing to do so due to non-economic factors. Accordingly,
non-economic or socioemotional factors can account for the
heterogeneity of family ﬁrms and their particularistic innovation
behavior (Chrisman et al., in press; Chrisman & Patel, 2012). While
previous studies mainly compare willingness with ability and
describe the resulting dilemma between both (e.g., Chrisman &
Patel, 2012), the relationships between different non-economic
factors and the willingness to innovate are, to the best of our
knowledge, far from being fully understood in the existing research.
Prior research has mainly treated family ﬁrms as a homogenous
population and lacks a differentiated perspective on the ‘family
variable’ (e.g., Craig & Dibrell, 2006; Dyer, 2003; Hirigoyen &
5 Family ﬁrms are the most important organizational form in Austria (90% of the
national ﬁrms) and especially dominant in the Austrian tourism industry (93% of
the national ﬁrms) (Pleininger, 2014). More details on the research context can be
found in section ‘‘Methods’’.
6 An example of a related study is that of Au et al. (2013) which investigates the
nurturing of intergenerational entrepreneurship by incubating the next generation
in spin-offs of the family ﬁrm.
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
2

Labaki, 2012). Studies have focused on investigating whether
family inﬂuence – measured in terms of family ownership and
management – is negatively or positively related to innovation
propensity, most often in a dichotomous comparison with non-
family ﬁrms. These studies have reported contradictory results:
Some studies report a positive relationship between family
inﬂuence and innovation (Gudmundson et al., 2003; Hsu & Chang,
2011; Llach & Nordqvist, 2010) as well as entrepreneurial activities
in general (Zahra, 2005; Zahra, Neubaum, & Huse, 2000). Other
studies ﬁnd a negative relationship between family inﬂuence and
innovation (e.g., Block, 2012; Chen & Hsu, 2009; Chin, Chen,
Kleinman, & Lee, 2009; Czarnitzki & Kraft, 2009; Munari, Oriani, &
Sobrero, 2010; Mun˜oz-Bullo´n & Sanchez-Bueno, 2011). The
conﬂicting results might partly be due to the oversimpliﬁed
measurement of family inﬂuence by merely considering potential
family inﬂuence through ownership and control. Recent studies
react to this critique and take a more differentiated perspective on
how the ‘family variable’ as well as non-economic factors impact
innovation behavior. For example, Ko¨nig et al. (2013) develop
propositions on how family inﬂuence affects the adoption of
discontinuous technologies in incumbent ﬁrms. They theorize that
higher levels of family inﬂuence may cause a ﬁrm to recognize the
strategic relevance of discontinuous technologies later than ﬁrms
with less family inﬂuence – but if the adoption decision was made,
family ﬁrms implement it faster and with more stamina. Thus,
family inﬂuence can have both fostering and impeding effects on
handling change and innovation. Kammerlander and Ganter (in
press) additionally stress the role of owner-managers’ non-
economic goals in regard to adopting discontinuous technologies.
Kotlar, De Massis, Frattini, Bianchi, and Fang (2013) state that the
non-economic endeavor of maintaining control over the family
ﬁrm’s technological trajectory causes family ﬁrm’s hesitancy in
acquiring external technologies. A set of family-related enabling
and constraining factors for product innovation is proposed by
Cassia, De Massis, and Pizzurno (2011) based on a qualitative
study. Amongst the enabling factors are high levels of communi-
cation among family members, a high desire to keep the family’s
reputation and name, and high levels of family members’
commitment to the ﬁrm. The main constraining factors are risk
aversion, high levels of family conﬂict and closure toward external
information from investors. In summary, it is reasonable to assume
that non-economic factors can enable and constrain family ﬁrms’
willingness to innovate at the same time.
A few studies have investigated the effect of the duration of
family control on innovation and report a decreasing innovation
propensity over time (Beck, Janssens, Debruyne, & Lommelen,
2011; Craig & Moores, 2006; Kellermanns, Eddleston, et al., 2012;
Litz & Kleysen, 2001). On the one hand, later-stage family ﬁrms
typically have more formalized structures and well-established
processes (Westhead, Howorth, & Cowling, 2002), which are likely
to reduce the capabilities to react to external changes (Beck et al.,
2011). On the other hand, later-stage family ﬁrms may be less
willing to innovate due to risk aversion and an increased desire to
maintain the status quo (Kellermanns, Eddleston, et al., 2012).
While these studies consider the life stage of the family ﬁrm, there
remains a blind spot concerning innovation behavior during
particular phases in the lifecycle of family ﬁrms, e.g., the time
frame of intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms.
However, this time frame displays distinct characteristics that
clearly suggest investigating the time frame in the context of
innovation (De Massis et al., 2013).
Intra-family leadership succession and innovation
Leadership succession is one of the key topics in family ﬁrm
research (Sharma, Chrisman, & Chua, 1997). We view the
prototypical succession process as a multi-year process7 of
collaboration between the senior and junior generation that
involves the transfer of managerial control in which power is
gradually shifted from one generation to the other. This transition
phase ideally includes an increasing involvement of the next
generation while the senior generation should simultaneously
reduce its involvement (e.g., Cabrera-Sua´rez, De Saa´-Pe´rez, &
Garcı´a-Almeida, 2001; Sharma, Chrisman, Pablo, & Chua, 2001).
Succession per se is a process of signiﬁcant changes (e.g., Handler,
1992; Sharma et al., 2001) and leads to a redistribution of patterns
of authority in both family and ﬁrm (Beckhard & Dyer, 1983;
Lansberg, 1988).
To date, the literature on succession in the context of family
ﬁrms has mainly treated succession as a problem-ridden threat
than as a chance (Le Breton-Miller, Miller, & Steier, 2004; Miller,
Steier, & Le Breton-Miller, 2003). Accordingly, the topic of
innovation plays no signiﬁcant role in the existing literature on
leadership 
succession 
in 
family 
ﬁrms. 
In 
the 
mainstream
management literature, CEO succession is considered as a periodic
opportunity to break out of inertial paths and as a mechanism to
realign the organization in order to stay competitive (Pfeffer &
Salancik, 1978; Quigley & Hambrick, 2012). It is argued that
established organizations tend to become inert and may react (too)
late to external changes if the CEO remains in his/her position for
too long (Fredrickson & Iaquinto, 1989; Freeman, 1977; Romanelli
& Tushman, 1994). This might be the case because their CEOs may
not be enduringly open-minded (Miller, 1991) but become
increasingly committed to their paradigms (Ghemawat, 1991;
Sydow, Schreyo¨gg, & Koch, 2009) and have difﬁculties revising
earlier decisions (Hambrick & Fukutomi, 1991). Over time, this
makes it increasingly difﬁcult to perceive the need for innovation
and renewal leading to an accumulated innovation pressure over
the incumbent’s tenure (Gersick, Lansberg, Desjardins, & Dunn,
1999). Since innovation depends on the exchange and combination
of different knowledge, experience, and opinions (Nahapiet &
Ghoshal, 1998; Schumpeter, 1934), we argue that the involvement
of the successor can act as ‘‘catalyst of change’’ and thus as a
unique opportunity for innovation activities (Kotlar & De Massis,
2013, p. 1281).
Indeed, the succession phase has characteristics that render it a
peculiar time frame for innovation: First, successors are identiﬁers
of new entrepreneurial opportunities (Salvato, 2004) and de-
scribed as drivers of innovation (Litz & Kleysen, 2001). They act as a
source of new information, knowledge, and resources, which is a
fertile ground for innovation (Aldrich & Cliff, 2003; Handler, 1992).
Second, the succession phase is usually accompanied by increased
goal diversity (Kotlar & De Massis, 2013) and conﬂict (Kellermanns,
Eddleston, Barnett, & Pearson, 2008). Conﬂict might be construc-
tive in terms of challenging rigid belief structures and attitudes
that hinder innovation (Gersick et al., 1999; Kepner, 1991). Third,
the successor may feel the need to establish his/her own
entrepreneurial reputation, which is most likely to be achieved
by challenging and changing the status quo (Kepner, 1991). Fourth,
the time of collaboration between the generations offers additional
7 While the duration of the succession process can of course vary among family
ﬁrms, succession starts long before and ends after the actual leadership transfer
(Handler, 1994). Following up on this, Kotlar and De Massis (2013) ﬁnd that goal
diversity increases distinctly around two years before and two years after the
leadership transfer takes place. Accordingly, Longenecker and Schoen (1978) state
that successors may need at least two years to master the complexities of the
position after the point of the actual leadership transfer. Studies investigating
succession-related topics usually take into account a time frame of ﬁve to ten years
in order to grasp this phase (e.g., Chrisman et al., 1998; Miller et al., 2003). Thus,
conceptualizing succession as a multiyear process emphasizes the need to innovate
during this long time as well.
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx 
3

resources (‘‘man power’’) to pursue the task of innovation
(Cabrera-Sua´rez et al., 2001).
Referring to the ‘Ability and Willingness Paradox,’ we can
assume that the time frame of succession may offer a peculiar
environment for innovation activities. The willingness to behave
idiosyncratically is dependent upon the perceived feasibility of a
given behavior (Chrisman et al., in press). Therefore, the perception
of the time frame of leadership succession for innovation plays a
critical role in the willingness to innovate during that time frame.8
However, non-economic factors are considered to inﬂuence the
willingness to exploit the potential ability to innovate during this
particular phase and thus account for heterogeneous behavior
(Chrisman et al., in press; Chrisman & Patel, 2012).
Socioemotional wealth
The non-economic factors that may affect the willingness of
innovation and thereby explain the heterogeneous innovation
behavior of family ﬁrms (Chrisman et al., in press) can be grasped
by the theoretical framework of SEW. While SEW is anchored in the
behavioral tradition of the management ﬁeld, it builds on the body
of research on family ﬁrm studies and is positioned as a
‘‘homegrown’’ theory of the ﬁeld (Berrone et al., 2012, p. 259;
Go´mez-Mejı´a, Cruz, Berrone, & De Castro, 2011; Go´mez-Mejı´a
et al., 2007). We apply SEW as a theoretical lens because it
prioritizes the controlling family, focuses on explaining family
members’ 
perceptions 
and 
decision-making 
behaviors 
and
accounts for the heterogeneity of family ﬁrms (e.g., Berrone
et al., 2012). The core of SEW is that decision-making in family
ﬁrms is not only driven by economic aspects but also in particular
by non-economic aspects that meet the family’s affective needs,
such as the retention of a strong family reputation derived by the
ﬁrm or the family members’ relationship to the ﬁrm (Berrone et al.,
2012; Go´mez-Mejı´a et al., 2007). SEW has started to be adopted as
the main theoretical framework in empirical studies of family
ﬁrms (e.g., Miller, Le Breton-Miller, & Lester, 2013; Vandekerkhof,
Steijvers, Hendriks, & Voordeckers, in press). However, a recent
critical discussion postulates that SEW has not only bright but also
dark sides (Kellermanns, Eddleston, & Zellweger, 2012; Miller & Le
Breton-Miller, 2014; Naldi et al., 2013). Moreover, SEW still poses
important challenges, especially in its methodological application
(e.g., Miller & Le Breton-Miller, 2014). Prior studies measured SEW
indirectly by the family’s stock ownership (e.g., Berrone et al.,
2012; Miller & Le Breton-Miller, 2014). However, stock ownership
and thus potential family inﬂuence is unlikely to capture all
aspects of SEW, e.g., interfamilial relationships may be very
different from one family ﬁrm to the other, despite the same level
of stock ownership (e.g., Hoy & Sharma, 2010; Miller & Le Breton-
Miller, 2014). Taking this into account, two thoughts regarding the
heterogeneity of family ﬁrms guided the study at hand: First,
family ﬁrms are inﬂuenced by non-economic factors, leading to
varying levels of willingness and thus heterogeneous innovation
behavior, even with similar levels of family ownership (ability)
(e.g., Chrisman et al., in press; Kammerlander and Ganter, in press).
Second, and as a logical consequence, the heterogeneity of family
ﬁrms requires a speciﬁc multi-dimensional measurement of family
inﬂuence beyond merely family ownership and management
(Chrisman et al., in press; Miller & Le Breton-Miller, 2014).
In summary, a research gap concerning innovation during the
succession phase could be identiﬁed due to the distinctive
characteristics of the succession phase in family ﬁrms that may
offer a peculiar time frame for innovation activities. However, the
willingness to seize the chance to innovate is likely to be inﬂuenced
both positively and negatively by non-economic factors. To the
best knowledge of the authors, no attempts have been made so far
to investigate the relationship between non-economic aspects and
the perceived suitability of the intra-family leadership succession
phase for innovation activities. This article tries to ﬁll this gap
through a quantitative survey of Austrian family ﬁrms that applies
the theoretical framework of SEW.
Hypotheses
The existing literature describes several aspects of SEW that
refer to three broad categories: (1) the family (section ‘‘Family
inﬂuence’’), (2) the relationship between the family and the ﬁrm
(section ‘‘Family-ﬁrm relationship’’), as well as (3) the relation-
ship between the family ﬁrm and the community (section
‘‘Family ﬁrm-community relationship’’) (e.g., Berrone et al.,
2012). We will derive hypotheses based on these aspects in the
following section.
Family inﬂuence
SEW acknowledges that the boundaries between the family
and the ﬁrm are blurred and permeable (Berrone et al., 2012).9
Thus, the family and its inherent complex interpersonal relation-
ships, goals, and norms of behavior exert inﬂuence on the ﬁrm
(Berrone, Cruz, Go´ mez-Mejı´a, & Larraza-Kintana, 2010; Habber-
shon & Williams, 1999). We argue that two family-related
variables should be taken into account in the context of
innovation. First, we investigate the family’s attitude toward
and enjoyment of coping with change, problems, and challenges.
Second, we focus on the role of intergenerational authority
structures in the family context.
Family’s adaptability and innovation during succession
The family is described as a problem-solving unit (Olson, 1988).
However, adaptability – deﬁned as attitude toward and enjoyment
of coping with challenges and adopting to change – differs among
families (Grotevant & Carlson, 1989; Walsh, 1998). In the
mainstream innovation literature, Damanpour (1991) ﬁnds that
managers’ positive attitude toward change is an important
antecedent of innovation. While the family’s adaptability is
demanded during all life stages of the family ﬁrm, the succession
phase demands even more adaptability due to its inherent
complexity, which is not as pronounced in more stable phases
of both the family and the ﬁrm. The succession phase can be
described as an exceptional time frame characterized by many
challenges and changes to both the family and the ﬁrm (e.g.,
Handler, 1994; Kotlar & De Massis, 2013). We argue that families
with low levels of adaptability will perceive the succession phase
as a problem-ridden threat and burden. Those families will
primarily devote a considerable amount of their time and
resources, which will no longer be available for innovation, to
dealing with typical succession-related issues and conﬂicts. In
contrast, families with high levels of adaptability will seize
8 The notion that perception inﬂuences behavior has long been recognized
(Dijksterhuis & van Knippenberg, 1998; James, 1890). Underlying this idea is that
apart from perceptual or cognitive representations, behaviors are mentally
represented and intimately linked (Dijksterhuis & van Knippenberg, 1998).
Perceptions constitute variables in various quantitative studies, e.g., Cruz et al.
(2010) or Davis et al. (2010).
9 According to Berrone et al. (2012), one aspect of SEW is family control and
inﬂuence, which refer to the degree of control and inﬂuence of family members over
decision making. This aspect is intentionally kept constant in our research setting
(exclusively family ﬁrms with 100% family ownership and management) in order to
observe heterogeneous behavior related to family inﬂuence beyond ownership and
management. Instead, we consider two variables related to informal family
inﬂuence (Berrone et al., 2012).
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
4

conﬂicts in a productive way and engage in effective communica-
tion (Bjo¨rnberg & Nicholson, 2007; Olson, 1988) that enables
innovation (Cassia et al., 2011). Moreover, those families will
perceive the time frame of succession as a chance, will have a
positive ‘can-do’ attitude toward succession, and will have more
resources left over to dedicate to innovation activities, which will
make those owner-managers more likely to perceive the succes-
sion phase as a unique opportunity to engage in innovation
activities. We therefore expect:
H1. Higher levels of the family’s adaptability will be positively
related to the perceived suitability of intra-family leadership suc-
cession phase for innovation activities.
Intergenerational authority and innovation during succession
Intergenerational authority is deﬁned as the authority relation-
ships between the senior and junior generation that determines the
degree of liberty or constraint in working relationships – and thus
the extent to which the successor has a say in decision-making
during leadership succession (Bjo¨rnberg & Nicholson, 2007; Ger-
sick, Davis, Hampton, & Lansberg, 1997). Authority structures
within the family and the ﬁrm are considered to be equivalent and
thus represent working relationships between the generations
during the succession phase (Bjo¨rnberg & Nicholson, 2007; Tagiuri &
Davis, 1992). One the one hand, concentrated decision-making
authority is considered to positively affect innovation as a result of
speed and stamina (Ko¨nig et al., 2013). On the other hand,
centralized decision-making authority limits the exchange of
information and ideas (Zahra, Hayton, & Salvato, 2004), which
makes the family ﬁrm less adaptive to changes in the environment
(Kohli & Jaworski, 1990). Moreover, incumbents tend to become
increasingly committed to their paradigms (Ghemawat, 1991;
Sydow et al., 2009) and may lose their open-mindedness over time
(Miller, 1991), which is likely to result in accumulated innovation
pressure (Gersick et al., 1999). Indeed, successors are identiﬁers of
entrepreneurial opportunities (Salvato, 2004) and drivers of
innovation (Litz & Kleysen, 2001). However, the next generation’s
innovation spirit can only come to the fore if authority structures
allow for it. Certainly, authority structures are in states of change
during the succession phase: ideally, the senior generation’s
authority decreases, while the next generation’s authority increases
(Beckhard & Dyer, 1983; Cabrera-Sua´rez et al., 2001). It is highly
unlikely that the senior generation’s role and the junior generation’s
role in decision-making are as clearly deﬁned during the time frame
of leadership succession as they are during more stable phases of the
family ﬁrm’s lifecycle. We argue that the level of intergenerational
authority from which the mutual authority adjustment of the senior
generation and the next generation during succession starts has a
signiﬁcant impact: In the case of low starting levels of intergenera-
tional authority, the owner-manager will rather soon consider the
successor’s ideas, information and identiﬁed opportunities during
the phase of leadership transition and will be open to participative
decision-making at eyelevel, which is beneﬁcial in terms of
innovation (e.g., Cassia et al., 2011). In contrast, high starting levels
of intergenerational authority will make the perception of the
succession phase as an opportunity for innovation less likely. This
is expected to be the case because the path to the threshold at
which the owner-manager will allow for the successor’s ideas,
information, and identiﬁed opportunities to come to the surface in
decision-making will be longer and more difﬁcult. These consider-
ations suggest the following hypothesis:
H2. Higher levels of intergenerational authority within the family will
be negatively related to the perceived suitability of intra-family
leadership succession phase for innovation activities.
Family-ﬁrm relationship
SEW also refers to the relationship between the family and the
ﬁrm as well as the history of family bonds (Berrone et al., 2012).
Family members’ closeness to the family ﬁrm and innovation during
succession
It is engrained in the nature of the family ﬁrm that there exists an
overlap between the family and the ﬁrm’s system (Habbershon &
Williams, 1999; von Schlippe & Frank, 2013) and identity. Family
members’ closeness to the ﬁrm induces a strong sense of
responsibility and pro-organizational behavior (Miller, Le Breton-
Miller, & Scholnick, 2008), which positively affects innovation (Ng,
Feldman, & Lam, 2010). For example, family members’ relationship
to the ﬁrm inﬂuences the attitudes toward internal processes and
the quality of the services and products provided (Carrigan &
Buckley, 2008; Teal, Upton, & Seaman, 2003). However, the
literature also draws attention to the fact that the closeness
between an incumbent and the ﬁrm might result in strong emotional
ties to the status quo (Ko¨nig et al., 2013; Sydow et al., 2009). This ego-
centered goal of preserving the status quo might hinder innovation
activities, as innovation typically requires a reorchestration of
organizational structures and various types of resources (Adner,
2012; Teece, 2006). However, the priorities of goals may change
depending on the circumstances of the family and the ﬁrm
(Chrisman & Patel, 2012). We deﬁnitely see the succession phase
as one such particular circumstance. Therefore, we argue that the
negative relationship between an owner-manager’s closeness to the
ﬁrm and innovation is not the case during the special time frame of
succession. Succession is accompanied by increased goal diversity
(Kotlar & De Massis, 2013) and is characterized by an inherent
instability in both the family and the ﬁrm (e.g., Handler, 1992;
Sharma et al., 2001). Moreover, succession will direct family
members’ view towards the future of the ﬁrm, as the decision
involves preserving the family ﬁrm as a family asset for the next
generation. Thus, ego-centered emotional ties to the status quo will
be ruled out by ‘higher order’ goals of long-term ﬁrm survival and the
perpetuation of the family’s reputation – goals which may not be as
prominent in more stable phases of both the family and the ﬁrm.
This, in turn, makes the owner-manager’s support of innovation
during the succession phase more likely.
Taken together, we expect that high levels of the owner-
manager’s closeness to the family ﬁrm will positively affect the
dependent variable:
H3. Higher levels of family members’ closeness to the family ﬁrm will
be positively related to the perceived suitability of intra-family
leadership succession phase for innovation activities.
History of family bonds and innovation during succession
Another variable describing the family-ﬁrm relation is the
history of family control over the ﬁrm through intra-family
succession. The history of past events and shared experiences
during the history of family bonds inﬂuences and may even
dominate everyday organizational work and thus innovation
activities (Berrone et al., 2012). The literature on innovation in
family ﬁrms concludes that innovation propensity tends to
generally decrease over the history of family bonds (e.g., Beck
et al., 2011). In regard to the special time frame of succession, we
argue that the history of family bonds is negatively related to the
perception of this phase for innovation in three ways: the need to
master increased complexity, the feeling of being ‘unsinkable’
(‘Titanic effect’) and the predominance of family-centered over
ﬁrm-centered goals. First, it is commonly accepted that the
complexity of family ﬁrms increases – due to larger ﬁrm size
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx 
5

(Evans, 1987) and higher degrees of formalization (Bammens,
Voordeckers, & Van Gils, 2008) –over time (Gersick et al., 1997;
Kellermanns, Eddleston, et al., 2012). Additionally, increased
ownership dispersion across multiple family members, maybe
even across multiple generations and family branches (Gersick et al.,
1997), can lead to shareholder conﬂicts during the succession phase
(Davis & Harveston, 1999).10As ﬁrm- and family-induced complex-
ity particularly increases during the succession phase, a consider-
able amount of resources to solve conﬂicts and to train the successor
in complex ﬁrm structures is needed – resources that are no longer
available for innovation. Additionally, it is likely that a rather
problem-centered perception of the succession phase will occur and
result in higher risk aversion, impeding innovation during the
succession phase (Cassia et al., 2011; Kellermanns, Eddleston, et al.,
2012; Litz & Kleysen, 2001). Second, a long history of family bonds
signals that the ﬁrm has been successful in the past. Family
members might see the ﬁrm as ‘unsinkable,’ and this ‘Titanic effect’
could lead to a decreased perception of the need for innovation.
Especially during the time frame of succession, innovation may not
be top priority but rather step back behind other challenges. Third,
and connecting to the ‘Titanic effect,’ Le Breton-Miller and Miller
(2013) state that family-centered goals tend to dominate over ﬁrm-
centered goals over time. Particularly during the time frame of
succession, family-related goals, such as family harmony and
cohesion (which may not be as endangered in more stable phases),
may come to the fore and dominate over ﬁrm-related goals, such as
innovation. Taken together, a longer history of family bonds is
expected to lead to a concentration of efforts preserving the status
quo of the family rather than on developing ﬁrm-centered potential
during the succession phase. We therefore hypothesize:
H4. A longer history of family bonds will be negatively related to the
perceived suitability of intra-family leadership succession phase for
innovation activities.
Family ﬁrm-community relationship
Family ﬁrms are often deeply embedded in their communities,
and hence, SEW takes binding social ties with the ﬁrm’s
environment, collaborative behavior, and social commitment into
account (Berrone et al., 2012, 2010).
Investment in social ties and innovation during succession
Family ﬁrms’ investment in developing and maintaining social
ties, e.g., in local politics, regional industry associations or clubs,
will foster the exchange of information about environmental
changes, which are potentially relevant for innovation activities.
While this form of information exchange will trigger an awareness
of the types of changes needed and thus foster innovation during
all life stages of the family ﬁrm, we argue that investing in social
ties may be even more powerful in the time frame of succession:
First, investing in social ties will increase the likelihood of
considering the next generation’s innovation ideas due to the
mere exposure effect (e.g., Zajonc, 2001).11 If the incumbent is
confronted with the need for innovation by different sources, the
likelihood of engaging in innovation activities during succession
will increase. Second, social ties to the environment may serve as a
support network that offers information on and raises awareness
of how other family ﬁrms handle the succession phase. This
adds conﬁdence to succession planning and supports a ‘can-do’
attitude that may again positively inﬂuence the engagement in
innovation. Third, family ﬁrms are considered to particularly aim
for the perpetuation of a positive family image and reputation in
the community (e.g., Berrone et al., 2012; Binz, Hair, Pieper, &
Baldauf, 2013). Since succession is a critical period of time for ﬁrm
survival (Beckhard & Dyer, 1983), the fact of having a capable and
innovative successor and of intentionally seizing the succession
phase for the sake of making the ﬁrm viable for the future might
gain relevance (Cassia et al., 2011). Beyond this, the engagement in
other activities peripheral to the family ﬁrm, such as local politics,
may 
provide 
a 
meaningful 
alternative 
activity 
to 
the
senior generation during and after the succession phase. This
might complement the feared loss of identity and power in the
community when retiring (Handler, 1994). This is, in turn,
positively related to the willingness to let go and to grant the
discretion of freedom to the successor – both positive antecedents
to innovation (Quigley & Hambrick, 2012). Taken together, we
hypothesize the following:
H5. Higher levels of investment in social ties will be positively related
to the perceived suitability of intra-family leadership succession phase
for innovation activities.
Methods
We applied a cross-sectional quantitative survey design to
approach the research question at hand. Beforehand, we conducted
eight semi-structured qualitative interviews in order to gain
insights in the speciﬁcs of the industry and region.12 Quantitative
data were collected from the owner-managers of entirely family-
owned (100%) and -managed hotels and guesthouses located in a
ski resort in Austria. We chose to hold family ownership and
management (100%) constant in order to observe potential
heterogeneity in the perception of the succession phase for
innovation originating from family inﬂuence beyond ownership
and control. Moreover, we deliberately concentrated our effort on
one industry and one geographical region in order to keep
environmental conditions close to constant, thus avoiding poten-
tial disturbing variables and thereby increasing internal validity.13
In common with other studies of family ﬁrms (e.g., Kellermanns
et al., 2008), a key informant approach was employed (Kumar,
Stern, & Anderson, 1993; Seidler, 1974). We chose to focus on
owner-managers because they are key players and hold substantial
decision power to affect ﬁrm behavior (e.g., Finkelstein &
Hambrick, 1990), which is in line with other studies on innovation
in the context of family ﬁrms (e.g., Kammerlander & Ganter, in
press).
Research context
Austria is a leading tourism destination in the world, with a
world market share of 2.3% (2011) and a market share in the
European Union of approximately 6% (2012). Moreover, of all
10 While the ﬁrms in our sample are entirely family-owned, only 41.6% of the
family ﬁrms are owned by merely one family member. The majority of these ﬁrms
(58.4%) are owned by up to ﬁve family members (while the majority stakeholder is
always the owner-manager). Therefore, intra-family ownership dispersion and
intra-family shareholder conﬂicts (Gersick et al., 1997) are deﬁnitely an issue for the
family ﬁrms in our sample.
11 The exposure effect postulates that the preference for an object, in our case an
innovative idea, emerges if an individual is repeatedly exposed to this particular
stimulus object (e.g., Zajonc, 2001).
12 The interviews were conducted in July 2013 and lasted between 60 and
120 min. In three business-owning families, we interviewed one member of each
senior and junior generation. In two other business-owning families, we
interviewed two more members of the senior generation. Three of the families
owned and managed hotels; two of the families owned and managed guesthouses.
13 The industry is considered to systemically affect the innovation behavior of
ﬁrms and should therefore be recognized as a confounding variable (Craig & Dibrell,
2006; Czarnitzki & Kraft, 2009; De Massis et al., 2013; Powell, 1996). Most of the
studies on innovation in family ﬁrms – as well as our study – concentrate on one
single industry (e.g., Chrisman & Patel, 2012; Classen et al., 2012).
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
6

countries worldwide, Austria receives the greatest touristic income
per capita from abroad (2218 USD in 2011). The hotel and tourism
industry has an enormous economic importance in Austria,
accounting for 15% of the national GDP and providing approxi-
mately 20% of the country’s full-time jobs.14 Family ﬁrms make up
93% of all ﬁrms in the tourism industry and are thus a crucial
cornerstone of the focal industry (Pleininger, 2014).
We argue that family ﬁrms’ reaction to innovation pressure
could be particularly well-observed in the context of Alpine hotels
and guesthouses. In general, the hotel industry is under great
pressure to innovate as guests constantly expect improved and
different offerings in terms of new products, processes, and
services (Martı´nez-Ros & Orﬁla-Sintes, 2012; Sundbo, Orﬁla-
Sintes, & Sørensen, 2007). Based on recent reports and studies15
as well as our qualitative explorations, the Austrian tourism
industry is characterized by a highly competitive environment and
changes in guest structure (e.g., internationalization), booking
patterns (e.g., less regular customers, shorter duration of stay), and
communication and sales channels (e.g., online booking) as well as
the general downturn during the summer season. All of these
factors result in aggressive price competition and, in particular, in
value competition, which puts innovation pressure on Alpine
hotels and guesthouses. Because these small- and medium-sized
ﬁrms are unable to obtain a low-cost advantage (Smeral & Witt,
1996), they need to focus on differentiation strategies based on
innovation activities (Pikkemaat, 2008). Next to product and
service innovations, which can be services such as childcare in the
context of hotels and guesthouses, other types of innovation can be
pursued. Process innovations often concern energy and water use
or 
IT 
processes 
(Nicolau 
& 
Santa-Marı´a, 
2013). 
Moreover,
organizational innovations can be, e.g., the introduction of variable
salary components, while business model innovations that occur
in the tourism industry are, e.g., the market launch of own spa
products or, as in our sample, the offer of hiking tours in
cooperation with several neighboring hotels and guesthouses
(Nicolau & Santa-Marı´a, 2013).16 Taken together, the chosen
research setting is well-suited for an insightful study on how
family ﬁrms may react to innovation pressures in their environ-
ment during the phase of succession.
Data collection
We developed a standardized questionnaire to gather the
data. Upfront, the ﬁnal survey design was trialed on several
members of the target group to check the length and face validity
of the questionnaire content. Minor adaptions were made
accordingly. Of a population of 236 family ﬁrms, we visited
209 families personally to invite the owner-managers to take
part in the survey. The respondents had the choice of completing
the questionnaire either online or paper-based (returned via
mail). No differences regarding the mode of dispatch of the
questionnaire could be found. We ended up with a sample of 103
(response rate of 49.3%), which was reduced to a useable sample
of 81 questionnaires due to missing values (effective response
rate of 38.8%).
To explore the possibility of non-response bias, we compared
the data obtained from early (ﬁrst mailing) and late (second and
third mailings) respondents using an analysis of variance (ANOVA)
(Armstrong & Overton, 1977). No statistically signiﬁcant differ-
ences were found in either sample on any of the variables analyzed
in this study, which mitigates non-response concerns. We further
conducted an ANOVA between the respondents that answered
all relevant questions for our study and the respondents who did
not respond to the questions used to measure our dependent
variable. Here again, no signiﬁcant differences emerged. We
addressed the potential for multicollinearity and common method
bias as follows. First, the correlations of variables are relatively low
(Table 3), and the variance inﬂation factor (VIF) is below 1.71. Thus,
multicollinearity did not appear to be a concern (Hair, Black, Babin,
Anderson, & Tatham, 2006; Tabachnick & Fidell, 1996). Second, we
performed tests for common method bias using Harman’s one-
factor test suggested by Podsakoff, MacKenzie, Jeong-Yeon, &
Podsakoff (2003). We entered items of control, independent
variables, and dependent variables into a single-factor analysis.
Nine factors with eigenvalues >1.0 accounting for 73.47% of the
variance were extracted. The ﬁrst factor accounted for 28.11% of
the variance, while the remaining factors accounted for 45.36% of
the variance. Since no common method factor and no single factor
emerged, we concluded that common method bias was not a
signiﬁcant concern. Potential concerns for common method bias
are further mitigated due to the prospective design of our study,
making consistency effects unlikely (Podsakoff et al., 2003).
Sample
On the ﬁrm level, our sample consists of ﬁrms with an average
age of 55 years, with 75.3% of these being later-generation family
ﬁrms (managed and held by descendants of the founders of the
family ﬁrm). The ﬁrms are entirely owned (100%) and managed
by the family. The next succession phase will begin in 11 years
(from 1 to 30 years) on average. Information on the type of
activities, size, and quality standards is given in Table 1 in
comparison to the population of ﬁrms in the hotel industry in
Austria. The average age of the family ﬁrms in our sample
(55 years) is comparable to the average age of the ﬁrms in a
sample containing German and Swiss family ﬁrms investigated
by Zellweger, Kellermanns, Chrisman, and Chua (2012) (67 years
for Swiss ﬁrms and 49 years for German ﬁrms).17The ﬁrms in our
sample are representative regarding the types of activities, while
being slightly larger and offering higher quality standards than
the hotels on the national level in Austria.18
In regard to the responding owner-managers, 50.6% (49.4%) are
female (male), have 2.32 children on average and are 42 years old
on average. Their age is similar to the owner-managers’ average
Table 1
Comparison of sample characteristics and Austrian hotel population.
Variables 
Sample 
Austria
Type 
Hotel (%) 
46.9 
46.2
Bed and Breakfast (%) 
34.6 
33.7
Flats and apartments (%) 
18.5 
20.1
Size 
Number of beds (mean) 
36.3 
33.1
Number of employees (mean) 
13.8 
10.3
Quality 
High: Three stars or more (%) 
90.9 
72.0
Notes. Data for Austria sourced from Hotel Industry Association of the Austrian
Federal Economic Chamber, Statistics Austria.
14 According to data from the Hotel Industry Association of the Austrian Federal
Economic Chamber (www.wko.at) and Statistics Austria (www.statistik.at).
15 According to the aforementioned sources as well as ‘Tourism horizon Austria
2013’ (http://issuu.com/oehv/docs/tourismushorizont2013).
16 In Austria, innovation activities during succession are supported institutionally:
Family ﬁrms are supported by tax advantages regarding real property transfer and
inheritance as well as by, e.g., the Austrian Tourism Bank (OETH), which provides
comprehensive state guarantees for investments during succession.
17 If there were no data available for the speciﬁc population in Austria, we
compared our sample to that of other related studies with a family ﬁrm sample in
German-speaking countries.
18 This region was nominated as a ‘‘World Gourmet Village’’ by Falstaff, the
Austrian gourmet guide, in 2008 and is consistently one of the Top 10 Austrian
Winter tourism destinations according to the Hotel Industry Association of the
Austrian Federal Economic Chamber.
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx 
7

ages in Swiss (46 years) and German ﬁrms (44 years) reported in
national studies (Sternberg & Lu¨ckgen, 2005; Volery, Bergmann,
Gruber, Haour, & Leleux, 2007).
Measures
To better document the relationship between different non-
economic factors and our dependent variable, this study sought to
delineate non-economic factors through the use of well-established,
validated and reliable measures from the ﬁeld of family business
research (Table 2). Berrone et al. (2012) have recently introduced the
‘FIBER’ dimensions of SEW and proposed a ﬁrst approximation for
the measurement of SEW with psychometric scales in surveys.
Authors such as Miller and Le Breton-Miller (2014) stress the need
for a multi-dimensional measurement (beyond the commonly
applied proxy of family ownership) and underline the development,
testing, and validation of the SEW measurement as an important
future research avenue. We conceptualized and measured SEW as
follows (see also Fig. 1, Appendix):
Family inﬂuence: In our study, we deliberately kept family
inﬂuence via ownership and management constant and instead
grasped the rather informal family inﬂuence through the family
climate, as recommended by Berrone et al. (2012). We adapted the
measurement to the research context and applied two innovation-
related 
multi-item 
scales 
(adaptability 
and 
intergenerational
authority19) developed by Bjo¨rnberg and Nicholson (2007).
Family-ﬁrm relationship: Due to its intrinsic proximity, we
merged Berrone et al.’s (2012) dimensions ‘‘family members’
Table 2
Measures of dependent and independent variables.
Dependent variable 
Reference 
Alpha
Perceived suitability of the succession phase for innovation activities
5-point Likert scale (from ‘not suitable at all’ to ‘very suitable’) 
Adapted from Spriggs et al. (2013) 
0.86
How do you perceive the succession phase for the following innovation activities?
(1) Introducing new products or services
(2) Creating new organizational structures
(3) Establish new processes
(4) Test new business models
Independent variables 
Reference 
Alpha
Family inﬂuence
Adaptability
5-point Likert scale (from ‘I strongly disagree’ to ‘I strongly agree’) 
Bjo¨rnberg and Nicholson (2007) 
0.83
In our family. . .
(1) We face challenges very effectively
(2) We are ﬂexible and adaptable in how we deal with difﬁculties
(3) We are poor at dealing with the unexpecteda
(4) We are always able to help each other when the need arises
(5) In solving problems, we are not often willing to change our routinesa
(6) We approach problems with a positive mindset
(7) We know we have the power to solve major problems
(8) When we face difﬁculties we work together effectively
Intergenerational authority
5-point Likert scale (from ‘I strongly disagree’ to ‘I strongly agree’) 
Bjo¨rnberg and Nicholson (2007) 
0.78
In our family. . .
(1) The younger generations try to conform with what the older
generation would want
(2) The wishes of the older generation are obeyed
(3) The authority of the older generation is not questioned
(4) Family members of the older generation set the rules
(5) The word of the older generation is law
Family-ﬁrm relationship
Family member’s closeness to the ﬁrm
5-point Likert scale (from ‘I strongly disagree’ to ‘I strongly agree’) 
Birley (2002); Bjo¨rnberg and Nicholson (2012) 
0.85
(1) I feel as if I belong to the family business
(2) I care about the family business
(3) I feel detached from the family businessa
(4) I feel close to the family business
(5) The family business is an important part of who I am
(6) The fate of the family business is not relevant to mea
(7) I identify with the family business
(8) What happens to the family business matters to me
History of family bonds
In which year has your family ﬁrm been established? 
Zellweger et al. (2012)
Family ﬁrm-community relationship
Investment in social ties
5-point Likert scale (from ‘not active’ to ‘very active’) 
Cruz et al. (2012) 
0.71
How active are you at the community level in the following three areas:
(1) local politics
(2) clubs/associations primarily for the public’s beneﬁt
(3) regional working groups
a Reverse scaled.
19 We measured intergenerational authority at the time of data collection. Being
aware of the fact that intergenerational authority may change over a family ﬁrm’s
lifecycle, the main focus of this article is to compare multiple family ﬁrms regarding
various SEW compositions on the perceived suitability of innovation in the
succession period.
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
8

identiﬁcation with the ﬁrm’’ and ‘‘emotional attachment’’ and relied
on well-established items developed by Birley (2002) and Bjo¨rnberg
and Nicholson (2012) to measure the family member’s closeness to the
ﬁrm. We thereby kept the measurement as parsimonious as possible.
We measured the history of family bonds retrospectively according to
Zellweger et al. (2012) (founding year).
Family ﬁrm-community relationship: We measured investment in
social ties according to Cruz, Justo, and De Castro (2012) by relating
to family members’ activities in local political, social, and working
groups.
As shown in Table 2, we relied on well-established, validated,
and reliable multi-item scales from the ﬁeld of family business
research measured on ﬁve-point Likert-type scales. The Cronbach’s
alpha measures are all well above the recommended value of 0.60
(Nunnally & Bernstein, 1994). Questionnaire items were taken
from the English literature and translated into German according
to Brislin’s back-translation procedure (1970).
Building on prior research, we used four control variables in
order to partial out the effects that could potentially confound our
results. We included the responding owner-manager’s age (e.g., Le
Breton-Miller et al., 2004; Zellweger & Astrachan, 2008) and sex
(Harveston, Davis, & Lyden, 1997) (0 = female, 1 = male) since
these variables are considered to affect factors such as risk
perception. Taking into account the relevance of ﬁrm size to the
perception of strategic initiatives (Milliken, Martins, & Morgan,
1998), we controlled for size because our context is best measured
through bed capacity (number of beds offered) according to Peters
and Buhalis (2004). Moreover, we measure time to next succession
phase (years) to control for the closeness of the event (Kotlar & De
Massis, 2013), which might potentially affect the suitability of this
phase for innovation activities.
Findings
Means, standard deviations, and correlations are shown in
Table 3. In general, responding owner-managers perceived the
succession phase as quite suitable for innovation (M = 3.79).
Responses range from 1 to 5, and the considerable standard
deviation of 0.92 illustrates the heterogeneity of owner-managers’
willingness to innovate. The standard deviations in the indepen-
dent variables (ranging from 0.68 to 0.92) also reﬂect the
heterogeneity of family ﬁrms.
In line with other research on family ﬁrms with a dependent
variable measured on Likert-type scales (e.g., Ling & Kellermanns,
2010; Spriggs, Yu, Deeds, & Sorenson, 2013), the hypotheses were
tested using OLS regression analyses.20 We entered the control
variables in Model 1, while the independent variables were
entered in Model 2 (see Table 4). Overall, Model 1 is signiﬁcant
(p < 0.01) and displays an adjusted R2 of 0.116. The model shows
that respondents’ age is positively and signiﬁcantly related to the
perceived suitability of the succession phase for innovation
activities 
(p < 0.001), 
ﬁrm 
size 
(p < 0.05), 
and 
signiﬁcantly
negatively 
related 
to 
time 
to 
next 
generational 
transition
(p < 0.10). Including the independent variables in Model 2, the
adjusted R2 increases to 0.353 (p < 0.001). Adaptability (b = 0.328,
p < 0.001) and family member’s closeness to the ﬁrm (b = 0.203,
p < 0.01) are positively and signiﬁcantly related to the dependent
variable. Thus, H1 and H3 are supported. Similarly, intergenera-
tional authority (b = 0.234, p < 0.01) and the history of family
bonds (b = 0.230, p < 0.01) are negatively and signiﬁcantly
related to the dependent variable and thereby provide support
for H2 and H4. Investment in social ties is not signiﬁcantly related
to the dependent variable. Accordingly, H5 is not supported.
Robustness checks
We ran several robustness checks to ensure that our results are
not artifacts of the variables used in the study or the method
chosen for data analysis. The relationships found in our primary
analysis held when the history of family bonds was measured in the
number of generations instead of the age of the ﬁrm. The age of
the ﬁrm can be regarded as a useful proxy for the generations of the
family in control of the ﬁrm because founder-controlled ﬁrms tend
to be younger than successor-controlled ﬁrms. However, although
ﬁrm age and the number of generations are highly and signiﬁcantly
correlated (in our sample, r = 0.505, p < 0.001), they are not
Table 3
Correlation Matrix, Means, and Standard Deviations.
Variables 
Mean 
SD 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5
1 
Age (respondent) 
42.00 
15.88 
–
2 
Sex (respondent; 0 = female; 1 = male) 
0.49 
0.50 
0.073 
–
3 
Size (ﬁrm; number of beds) 
36.29 
29.70 
0.032 
0.029 
–
4 
Time to next transgenerational transition (ﬁrm) 
11.32 
9.08 
0.106 
0.038 
0.173 
–
5 
Adaptability (family inﬂuence) 
3.52 
0.68 
0.205 
0.051 
0.187 
0.061 
–
6 
Intergenerational authority (family inﬂuence) 
2.58 
0.88 
0.192 
0.137 
0.156 
0.158 
0.203
7 
Family member’s closeness to ﬁrm (family-ﬁrm relation) 
3.61 
0.75 
0.123 
0.085 
0.148 
0.041 
0.218
8 
History of family bonds (family-ﬁrm relation) 
55.41 
53.53 
0.093 
0.104 
0.225 
0.042 
0.026
9 
Investment in social ties (family ﬁrm-community relation) 
2.12 
0.92 
0.024 
0.151 
0.043 
0.003 
0.025
10 
Perceived suitability of succession phase for innovation activities (DV) 
3.79 
0.92 
0.326 
0.020 
0.190 
0.151 
0.328
Variables 
Mean 
SD 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10
1 
Age (respondent) 
42.00 
15.88
2 
Sex (respondent; 0 = female; 1 = male) 
0.49 
0.50
3 
Size (ﬁrm; number of beds) 
36.29 
29.70
4 
Time to next transgenerational transition (Firm) 
11.32 
9.08
5 
Adaptability (family inﬂuence) 
3.52 
0.68
6 
Intergenerational authority (family relation) 
2.58 
0.88 
–
7 
Family member’s closeness to ﬁrm (family-ﬁrm relation) 
3.61 
0.75 
0.173 
–
8 
History of family bonds (family-ﬁrm relation) 
55.41 
53.53 
0.078 
0.020 
–
9 
Investment in social ties (family ﬁrm-community relation) 
2.12 
0.92 
0.034 
0.077 
0.182 
–
10 
Perceived suitability of succession phase for innovation activities (DV) 
3.79 
0.92 
0.240 
0.208 
0.234 
0.075 
–
Notes. Correlations above j0.165j are signiﬁcant at p < 0.05. N = 81.
20 In the social sciences, ordinal-level variables, such as Likert-type scales from
survey questions, are commonly used as dependent variables. The categories are
typically treated as though they were measured on an interval scale, which enables
the use of OLS regressions (Andersen, 2004; Field, 2011). Further justiﬁcation for the
appropriateness of the method of data analysis for the variables at hand is provided
by Glass, Peckham, and Sanders (1972) and Cariﬁo and Perla (2007). In order to
check for the robustness of the method of data analysis chosen, we conducted an
ordinal regression. The results were conﬁrmed and remained stable.
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx 
9

identical. Nevertheless, we decided to use ﬁrm age in our main
analysis, as the number of generations was a categorical variable,
while ﬁrm age was measured continuously. Furthermore, as
mentioned above, we used bed capacity as our preferred measure
of ﬁrm size, as is typical for studies in the hotel industry (e.g.,
Pikkemaat & Peters, 2006). Again, the relationships found in our
primary analysis held when we measured ﬁrm size in terms of the
number of employees during the main season (full-time equiva-
lents) or entered the type of business (e.g., hotel, B&B, holiday ﬂat)
as a size proxy. Furthermore, in order to check for the robustness of
the method of data analysis, our results were conﬁrmed and
remained stable when we applied ordinal regressions. As a last
robustness check, following Molly, Laveren, & Deloof (2010), we
explored the possibility that multicollinearity has an effect on our
results by examining the correlations among the independent
variables in Table 3. Although the correlations among the
independent variables are relatively low, the highest correlation
can be found with regard to ﬁrm size and the history of family bonds
(r = 0.225, p < 0.05). We therefore replicated our analyses by
excluding one of these variables from our model. However, the
resulting effects were identical to those found in Table 4. In addition,
as reported above, an alternative measure of ﬁrm size was integrated
in our analyses. However, the use of this alternative size measure
does not change our results. Moreover, the correlations between the
dependent and independent variables (see Table 3) are entirely
consistent with the results of the regression analysis (Table 4).
Overall, we conclude that our results are robust and thus not artifacts
of the variables or the analysis method used in the study.
Supplemental analysis
A supplemental analysis revealed some interesting insights
regarding (1) the selection criteria for successors, (2) the role of the
incumbent during and after leadership transition, (3) the formal
planning of the leadership transition phase.
(1) We found a modest positive correlation between the impor-
tance of a family internal successor21 and our dependent
variable (r = 0.240, p < 0.05). Additionally, the importance of
the industry-external experience of a potential successor22 and
our dependent variable are positively related to each other
(r = 0.236, p < 0.05). It seems that owner-managers attribute a
higher suitability of the succession phase to innovation
purposes if a family internal successor can be found that
brings with her/him experience from outside the focal
industry. This is in line with the innovation literature, which
recently started exploring the transfer of (already existing)
innovative solutions across industry borders from analogous
domains (Keinz & Pru¨gl, 2010; Poetz & Pru¨gl, 2010).
(2) Innovation activities during the succession phase seem to be
more likely if a clear and common understanding between the
two generations regarding the incumbent’s role during and
after the phase of leadership transition is seen as important by
the responding owner-managers23 (r = 0.278, p < 0.05). There
is also a signiﬁcant positive correlation between our depen-
dent variable and whether the owner-managers perceive it
to be critical to the success of the leadership succession that
they are able to ‘‘let go’’24 (r = 0.424, p < 0.001). This again
underlines the importance of granting the freedom of
discretion to the successor. However, because predecessors
usually enjoy a central role in the family ﬁrm (Rubenson &
Gupta, 1996), they may inﬂuence decisions even after the
succession and regardless of their formal role (Davis &
Harveston, 1998).
(3) The perception of the succession phase as an opportunity for
innovation is strongly correlated with the respondents’ rating
of the importance of timely and detailed succession plan-
ning25 (r = 0.509, p < 0.001). Succession planning usually
involves deﬁning the roles of both the predecessor and
successor (Lansberg, 1988; Mitchell, Hart, Valcea, & Town-
send, 2009). By dividing the responsibilities between both
generations, it will be more likely that the successor is granted
the freedom of discretion to engage in innovation activities
(Mitchell et al., 2009).
Table 4
Results of regression analyses.
Variables 
Model 1 
Model 2
Controls
Respondent 
Age 
0.318***
0.319***
Sex (0 = female; 1 = male) 
0.026 
0.028
Firm 
Size (number of beds) 
0.186*
0.185*
Time to next transgenerational transition 
0.139y
0.136y
Independent variables
Family inﬂuence 
Adaptability 
0.328***
Intergenerational authority 
0.234**
Family-ﬁrm relation 
Family member’s closeness to ﬁrm 
0.203**
History of family bonds 
0.230**
Family ﬁrm-community relation 
Investment in social ties 
0.076
R2
0.160 
0.426
Adjusted R2
0.116 
0.353
DR2
0.266***
F 
3.625**
5.852***
Notes. Standardized regression weights are shown. N = 81. DV: Perceived suitability of succession phase for innovation activities.
y p < 0.10.
* p < 0.05.
** p < 0.01.
*** p < 0.001.
21 ‘How important is a family internal successor from your point of view?’ from
1 = not important at all to 5 = very important.
22 ‘How important is industry-external experience of a potential successor from your
point of view?’ from 1 = not important at all to 5 = very important.
23 ‘We (my successor and I) have a common understanding of my (the incumbent’s)
role and responsibilities during and after leadership succession’ from 1 = I strongly
disagree to 5 = I strongly agree.
24 ‘How important is the senior generation’s ability to let go for the overall success of
the leadership succession from your point of view?’ from 1 = not critical at all to
5 = very critical.
25 ‘How important is timely and detailed succession planning for the overall success of
the leadership succession from your point of view?’ from 1 = not critical at all to
5 = very critical.
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
10

Discussion
We argue that the intra-family leadership succession phase
offers a peculiar time frame for the pursuit of innovation activities.
We followed Chrisman et al. (in press) and tested the relationship
between non-economic factors and the willingness to innovate (in
our study, the perceived suitability of the succession phase for
innovation activities). We conﬁrmed the well-founded notion that
non-economic factors account for a considerable amount of variance
in our dependent variable and that they can both enable and hinder
innovation activities (e.g., Cassia et al., 2011; Miller & Le Breton-
Miller, 2014; Naldi et al., 2013). In detail, the ﬁndings show that
family 
relations 
and 
structures 
could 
be 
positively 
(family
adaptability) or negatively (intergenerational authority) related to
innovation during succession. Thus, we transfer (and conﬁrm)
Damanpour’s (1991) ﬁnding that managerial adaptability positively
affects innovation in the family business sphere. Moreover, we argue
that a positive mindset toward being able to handle all succession-
related issues and conﬂicts will pay off in terms of innovation during
this peculiar time frame. In regard to the negative relationship
between intergenerational authority and the perception of the
succession phase for innovation, we conﬁrm the literature on the
hindering effects of centralized decision-making (Salvato, 2004;
Zahra et al., 2004) and low levels of communication (Cassia et al.,
2011) on innovation. While Ko¨nig et al. (2013) propose a positive
relationship between centralized decision-making and discontinu-
ous innovation, our empirical ﬁndings (which involve continuous
and discontinuous innovation) suggest that this proposition may
not be transferred to all types of innovation.
We also ﬁnd ambiguous relationships for the family-ﬁrm
relation of SEW: A close relationship between the owner-manager
and the ﬁrm is positively associated with potential innovation
activities in the succession phase. This result partly contradicts
Ko¨nig et al. (2013), who again only focused on discontinuous
innovation, but may stress even more the fact that the succession
phase is distinct to other phases of the family ﬁrm’s lifecycle. The
history of family bonds shows negative effects, which is consistent
with the notion that the existing literature on innovation in family
ﬁrms generally conﬁrms a declining innovation propensity over
time (Beck et al., 2011). However, we extend the literature by
showing that increasing inertia also affects the succession phase in
aging family ﬁrms. Increasing risk aversion, the predominance of
family-centered goals over ﬁrm-centered goals, and the propensity
to rest on the laurels of past success might further diminish the
perception of succession as an opportunity for innovation. We
thereby provide support for Le Breton-Miller and Miller’s (2013)
notion of changing SEW priorities across the family ﬁrm lifecycle.
To our surprise, no signiﬁcant effects were found for the family
ﬁrm-community relationship proposed by SEW for various reasons.
First, we only measured one speciﬁc aspect of the multifaceted
possibilities of relations that a family ﬁrm is able to establish with its
wider community, namely, social ties to the local community. Thus,
further research should take into account a broader measurement,
including relationships with important stakeholders, such as
customers, vendors or suppliers (Berrone et al., 2012; Uhlaner,
2006). Second, it is possible that owner-managers prefer to discuss
sensitive succession- as well as innovation-related topics in contexts
other than the existing well-established community relations (‘close
or strong ties’) due to anxiety about reputation losses when openly
sharing succession- and innovation-related problems. For example,
anecdotal evidence shows that incumbent owner-get closer to
leadership transition phase often start to join events, conferences,
and associations dedicated to discussing succession-related issues.
Similarly, new information that is useful for coping with succession
and innovation challenges may originate from newly created
relations (‘weak or bridging ties,’ e.g., Granovetter, 1973).
Another interesting observation stems from our control vari-
ables, namely, the signiﬁcant relationship between owner-man-
agers’ age and our dependent variable. Over time, senior managers
develop a unique set of beliefs based on a shared legacy within the
ﬁrm (Prahalad & Bettis, 1986; Tripsas & Gavetti, 2000). As a
consequence, even in the face of environmental shifts, incumbents
make fewer changes as their tenure advances and often leave ﬁrms
with a strong need for innovation (Henderson, Miller, & Hambrick,
2006). The established literature on the organizational behavior of
CEOs clearly indicates that over time, CEOs often believe that past
conditions still 
exist, that their 
chosen strategies are 
still
appropriate, or that they become increasingly committed to their
paradigms (Hambrick, Geletkanycz, & Fredrickson, 1993). Contrary
to the mainstream literature, we observe two things in the family
business context: the owner-manager’s age is positively related to
the suitability of innovation activities during the phase of
transition, and the closer the transition comes, the stronger the
perceived need for innovation during succession. While this was
not in the main focus of this study because we only controlled for
these issues, we believe that this aspect merits future attention, as
family ﬁrm managers in our sample seem to recognize the need for
change and achievable innovation by passing the baton. On the
other hand, there are many well-known examples in which the
incumbent is still in ofﬁce in her/his eighties or even nineties (e.g.,
Hans Riegel, the former owner-manager of HARIBO, still went to
the ofﬁce on an almost daily basis even at the age of 90).
Contributions
The article offers relevant contributions that stand at the
interface of innovation, succession, and the particularistic behavior
of family ﬁrms. First, prior research on family ﬁrms did not fully
address the phase of intra-family leadership succession as a peculiar
time frame for innovation activities. This article extends this largely
overlooked but highly important literature stream by linking
innovation activities with the phase of leadership succession (De
Massis et al., 2013). Second, we are able to conﬁrm the usefulness of
considering non-economic factors as drivers of family ﬁrm
behavior. We thereby show that distinguishing between ability
and willingness helps to 
better 
understand the 
behavioral
heterogeneity of family ﬁrms in the context of innovation (Chris-
man et al., in press). We argue that indeed a special time frame of
leadership succession offers a peculiar environment for family ﬁrms
to engage in innovation activities but that willingness, i.e., the
perception of the succession phase as an opportunity for innovation,
varies depending on different non-economic factors. Moreover, our
results contribute to the recent discussion of the constraining and
enabling effects of non-economic factors (Miller & Le Breton-Miller,
2014; Naldi et al., 2013) and provide empirical support for this
notion. Third, we conﬁrm and even extend the importance of the
notion of heterogeneity in family ﬁrms’ behavior by choosing a very
restricted setting: in our sample, many confounding contextual
factors as well as formal family inﬂuence (ownership and
management, thus, the ability to innovate) were held constant
(Naldi et al., 2013; Thornton, Ocasio, & Lounsbury, 2012). Thus, the
behavioral heterogeneity of family ﬁrms depending on the
willingness to innovate is strongly supported by our ﬁndings.
Limitations and future research
We acknowledge a variety of limitations associated with
survey-related data collection and analysis. First, even though in
line with the majority of related studies (De Massis et al., 2013), we
used a cross-sectional design not allowing for an empirical test of
causality. We view the results as indicators of directionality rather
than absolute proof. A longitudinal data collection approach could
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx 
11

help in order to establish causal effects and to understand the
changes in perceptions and related innovation activities over time.
Additionally, because biases associated with a single informant per
ﬁrm are a limitation, we suggest a multi-informant approach by,
e.g., surveying several family members for future research.
Second, our sample is focused on one industry and region. As
outlined above, this approach has its merits, but it clearly limits the
generalizability of our ﬁndings. Future research should expand
data collection to other industries, geographical regions/cultural
contexts, family and ﬁrm sizes as well as varying degrees of family
inﬂuence in terms of ownership and management.
Third, as our dependent variable refers to the perceived
suitability of the succession phase for innovation activities, taking
into account implemented innovation effort and success before,
during, and after the succession phase could be a fruitful path for
future research. In fact, it is promising to empirically investigate
under which conditions innovation is supported in family ﬁrms
and how the succession phase is substantially different from other
phases in the family ﬁrm lifecycle regarding the likelihood of
innovation.26Similarly, investigating the dynamics of non-eco-
nomic factors during the succession phase and the lifecycle of the
family ﬁrm might contribute to a better understanding of family
ﬁrm behavior (Le Breton-Miller & Miller, 2013).
Fourth, while starting with the owner-managers’ perspective
and perceptions has its own merits, it would be fruitful to investigate
the next generation’s perspective, skills, abilities, and motivation in
the context of innovation (Mitchell et al., 2009).27 Our supplemen-
tary analysis revealed that owner-managers seem to attribute a
higher suitability of the succession phase for innovation activities if
a family internal successor holds experience from outside the focal
industry. In fact, recent innovation literature started exploring the
transfer of (already existing) innovative solutions across industry
borders from analogous domains (Keinz & Pru¨gl, 2010; Poetz &
Pru¨gl, 2010). We currently lack knowledge on how the (family
internal) successors’ industry-external experience inﬂuences the
innovation behavior of family ﬁrms. It could be very interesting to
see if the potential downside of family CEOs for innovation (e.g.,
Chen & Hsu, 2009; Chin et al., 2009) could be mitigated by industry-
external experience. Following up on this, we suggest an exploration
of whether the investigated relationships differ when comparing
family and non-family successors as well as when comparing a
single successor and succeeding teams (e.g., siblings).
Fifth, predecessors usually enjoy a central role in the family ﬁrm
(Rubenson & Gupta, 1996) and may inﬂuence decisions even after
succession and regardless of their formal roles (Davis & Harveston,
1998). Therefore, a detailed understanding of the predecessors’
formal and informal inﬂuence on innovation activities could be an
interesting research topic.28 Finally, the role of succession planning
could be considered to better illuminate the concept of innovation
during leadership succession. The degree to which the roles of both
predecessor and successor are explicitly deﬁned (Lansberg, 1988;
Mitchell et al., 2009) seems to impact the perception of this phase
as an opportunity rather than a threat. Thus, the degree to which
responsibilities and tasks will be clearly divided between both
generations is able to provide the successor with room for the
needed innovation activities (Mitchell et al., 2009).
In addition, our study strongly encourages the (empirical)
consideration of the heterogeneity of family ﬁrms, the life stage of
family ﬁrms and distinct phases in the family ﬁrm lifecycle, as well
as the importance of contextual factors for future research.
Managerial implications
Adapting to changes by innovating products and services,
organizational structures, processes or even business models is
critical for long-term business survival and should thus be one of the
core issues for decision-makers. Due to its speciﬁc characteristics, the
succession phase is a peculiar time frame for innovation activities.
Therefore, business-owning families should take this unique
opportunity into account in succession planning – even if succession
is accompanied by many other challenges. Since non-economic
factors are both positively and negatively related to this important
perception, it is recommendable for business-owning families to
review their family climate and the relationship between the family
and the ﬁrm. Day-to-day behaviors that support a positive mindset
toward challenges (adaptability) should be encouraged in families.
Furthermore, the senior generation should review its intergenera-
tional and organizational authority, especially around the time frame
of leadership succession. The dispersion of power, either to non-
family employees or to family successors, can potentially function as
an innovation booster during that peculiar phase. Moreover, a
reciprocal integration of the family and the ﬁrm in order to create a
close relationship should be encouraged: Talking about current
strategic or operational business issues at the dinner table and
fostering adolescents’ activities in the family ﬁrm (e.g., holiday jobs)
might be appropriate tools to support family members’ closeness to
the ﬁrm. Finally, we showed that the history of family bonds with the
ﬁrm is negatively associated with the perception of the succession
phase as an opportunity for innovation. It is thus recommendable,
especially for later-stage family ﬁrms, which tend to become stuck in
their inertial paths, to intentionally seize the opportunities the
succession process offers for (overdue) innovation activities.
Acknowledgements
First of all, we wish to thank the Special Issue Guest Editor
Nadine Kammerlander as well as the two anonymous reviewers for
their excellent support in developing this article throughout the
review process. We also thank Andrea Calabro`, Alfredo De Massis,
Mark Mietzner, Peter Rosa, and Jelle Schepers for sharing their
inspiring thoughts and constructive suggestions on this piece on
several occasions (especially SIG ‘Family Business Research’ at
EURAM 2014 in Valencia, Spain; IFERA 2014 in Laappeenranta,
Finland; and IFERA RDW 2014 at FIFO/WU Vienna, Austria).
Moreover, the FIF Advisory Board, Ulrich Hutschek, Ursula Koners,
Maximilian Lude, and Martin Jochum deserve our acknowledg-
ment and gratitude for the family entrepreneurs’ view, moral
support, and their enabling and supporting role in data collection.
Last but not least, we thank all interview partners and survey
participants for making this learning journey possible by dedicat-
ing their time and energy to this project and openly sharing their
views and experiences with us.
Appendix A
See Fig. 1
26 The ﬁrst steps to investigate innovation in family ﬁrms in relation to the life
stage of the family ﬁrm were undertaken by Craig and Moores (2006).
27 Following Handler (1989) as well as Bjo¨rnberg and Nicholson (2012), we
strongly encourage future research on successors’ viewpoints because we found
important hints of this phenomenon in our qualitative interviews. For example, an
owner-manager argued that they ‘‘had a boost in innovations, mainly caused by long-
term oriented investments, which will only be realizable once a generation.’’ However,
we found evidence that the freedom of discretion is a big challenge for the
succeeding generation – which was in this special case only granted due to the
predecessor’s sudden illness: ‘‘The advantage was that we could realize projects
according to our strategic vision and not the vision of my parents.’’
28 We found evidence in our qualitative and quantitative data that the willingness
to let go and give the successor freedom of discretion is critical: ‘‘If the senior
generation is not able to let go, problems are inevitable.’’ In fact, this owner-manager’s
retired father stated that ‘‘To be honest, the more we kept our nose out of operations
and decision making, the better it got.’’
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
12

References
Adner, R. (2012). The wide lens: A new strategy for innovation.. London: Penguin.
Aldrich, H. E., & Cliff, J. E. (2003). The pervasive effects of family on entrepreneurship:
Toward a family embeddedness perspective. Journal of Business Venturing, 18(5),
573–596.
Andersen, R. (2004). Regression models for ordinal data. In M. Lewis-Beck, A. Bryman, &
T. Liao (Eds.), Encyclopedia of social science research methods (pp. 942–943).
Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications, Inc.
Armstrong, J. S., & Overton, T. S. (1977). Estimating nonresponse bias in mail surveys.
Journal of Marketing Research, 14(3), 396–402.
Au, K., Chiang, F. F., Birtch, T. A., & Ding, Z. (2013). Incubating the next generation to
venture: The case of a family business in Hong Kong. Asia Paciﬁc Journal of
Management, 30(3), 749–767.
Bammens, Y., Voordeckers, W., & Van Gils, A. (2008). Boards of directors in family ﬁrms:
A generational perspective. Small Business Economics, 31(2), 163–180.
Basco, R. (2013). The family’s effect on family ﬁrm performance: A model testing
the demographic and essence approaches. Journal of Family Business Strategy, 4(1),
42–66.
Beck, L., Janssens, W., Debruyne, M., & Lommelen, T. (2011). A study of the relationships
between generation, market orientation, and innovation in family ﬁrms. Family
Business Review, 24(3), 252–272.
Beckhard, R., & Dyer, W. G., Jr. 
(1983). Managing continuity in the family-owned
business. Organizational Dynamics, 12(1), 5–12.
Bergfeld, M.-M.H., & Weber, F.-M. (2011). Dynasties of innovation: Highly performing
German family ﬁrms and the owners’ role for innovation. International Journal of
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management, 13(1), 80–94.
Berrone, P., Cruz, C., & Go´mez-Mejı´a, L. R. (2012). Socioemotional wealth in family ﬁrms
theoretical dimensions, assessment approaches, and agenda for future research.
Family Business Review, 25(3), 258–279.
Berrone, P., Cruz, C., Go´mez-Mejı´a, L. R., & Larraza-Kintana, M. (2010). Socioemotional
wealth and corporate responses to institutional pressures: Do family-controlled
ﬁrms pollute less? Administrative Science Quarterly, 55(1), 82–113.
Binz, C., Hair, J. F., Pieper, T. M., & Baldauf, A. (2013). Exploring the effect of distinct
family ﬁrm reputation on consumers’ preferences. Journal of Family Business
Strategy, 4(1), 3–11.
Birley, S. (2002). Attitudes of owner-managers’ children towards family and business
issues. Entrepreneurship: Theory & Practice, 26(3), 5–19.
Bjo¨rnberg, A˚ ., & Nicholson, N. (2007). The family climate scales—Development of a
new measure for use in family business research. Family Business Review, 20(3),
229–246.
Bjo¨rnberg, A˚ ., & Nicholson, N. (2012). Emotional ownership the next generation’s
relationship with the family ﬁrm. Family Business Review, 25(4), 374–390.
Block, J. H. (2012). R&D investments in family and founder ﬁrms: An agency perspec-
tive. Journal of Business Venturing, 27(2), 248–265.
Brislin, R. W. (1970). Back-translation for cross-cultural research. Journal of Cross-
Cultural Psychology, 1(3), 185–216.
Cabrera-Sua´rez, K., De Saa´-Pe´rez, P., & Garcı´a-Almeida, D. (2001). The succession
process from a resource-and knowledge-based view of the family ﬁrm. Family
Business Review, 14(1), 37–46.
Cariﬁo, J., & Perla, R. J. (2007). Ten common misunderstandings, misconceptions,
persistent myths and urban legends about Likert scales and Likert response
formats and their antidotes. Journal of Social Sciences, 3(3), 106–116.
Carrigan, M., & Buckley, J. (2008). ‘What’s so special about family business? An
exploratory study of UK and Irish consumer experiences of family businesses.
International Journal of Consumer Studies, 32(6), 656–666.
Cassia, L., De Massis, A., & Pizzurno, E. (2011). An exploratory investigation on NPD in
small family businesses from northern Italy. International Journal of Business,
Management and Social Sciences, 2(2), 1–14.
Chen, H.-L., & Hsu, W.-T. (2009). Family ownership, board independence, and R&D
investment. Family Business Review, 22(4), 347–362.
Chin, C.-L., Chen, Y.-J., Kleinman, G., & Lee, P. (2009). Corporate ownership structure and
innovation: Evidence from Taiwan’s electronics industry,. Journal of Accounting,
Auditing & Finance, 24(1), 145–175.
Chrisman, J.J., Chua, J.H., De Massis, A., Frattini, F., & Wright, M. (in press). The ability
and willingness paradox in family ﬁrm innovation. Journal of Product Innovation
Management.
Chrisman, J. J., Chua, J. H., Pearson, A. W., & Barnett, T. (2012). Family involvement,
family inﬂuence, and family-centered non-economic goals in small ﬁrms. Entre-
preneurship Theory and Practice, 36(2), 267–293.
Chrisman, J. J., Chua, J. H., & Sharma, P. (1998). Important attributes of successors
in family businesses: An exploratory study. Family Business Review, 11(1), 19–34.
Chrisman, J. J., & Patel, P. C. (2012). Variations in R&D investments of family and
nonfamily ﬁrms: Behavioral agency and myopic loss aversion perspectives.
Academy of Management Journal, 55(4), 976–997.
Chua, J. H., Chrisman, J. J., & Sharma, P. (1999). Deﬁning the Family Business by
Behavior. Entrepreneurship Theory & Practice, 23(4), 19–39.
Classen, N., Van Gils, A., Bammens, Y., & Carree, M. (2012). Accessing resources from
innovation partners: The search breadth of family SMEs. Journal of Small Business
Management, 50(2), 191–215.
Craig, J., & Dibrell, C. (2006). The natural environment, innovation, and ﬁrm perfor-
mance: A comparative study. Family Business Review, 19(4), 275–288.
Craig, J. B., & Moores, K. (2006). A 10-year longitudinal investigation of strategy,
systems, and environment on innovation in family ﬁrms. Family Business Review,
19(1), 1–10.
Cruz, C., Justo, R., & De Castro, J. O. (2012). Does family employment enhance MSEs
performance? Integrating socioemotional wealth and family embeddedness
perspectives. Journal of Business Venturing, 27(1), 62–76.
Cruz, C., & Nordqvist, M. (2012). Entrepreneurial orientation in family ﬁrms:
A generational perspective. Small Business Economics, 38(1), 33–49.
Cruz, C. C., Go´mez-Mejı´a, L. R., & Becerra, M. (2010). Perceptions of benevolence and the
design of agency contracts: CEO-TMT relationships in family ﬁrms. Academy of
Management Journal, 53(1), 69–89.
Czarnitzki, D., & Kraft, K. (2009). Capital control, debt ﬁnancing and innovative activity.
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization, 71(2), 372–383.
Damanpour, F. (1991). Organizational innovation: A meta-analysis of effects of deter-
minants and moderators. Academy of Management Journal, 34(3), 555–590.
Davis, J. H., Allen, M. R., & Hayes, H. D. (2010). Is blood thicker than water? A study of
stewardship perceptions in family business. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice,
34(6), 1093–1116.
Davis, P. S., & Harveston, P. D. (1998). The inﬂuence of family on the family business
succession process: A multi-generational perspective. Entrepreneurship Theory and
Practice, 22(3), 31–54.
Davis, P. S., & Harveston, P. D. (1999). In the founder’s shadow: Conﬂict in the family
ﬁrm. Family Business Review, 12(4), 311–323.
De Massis, A., Frattini, F., & Lichtenthaler, U. (2013). Research on technological
innovation in family ﬁrms present debates and future directions. Family Business
Review, 26(1), 10–31.
De Massis, A., Kotlar, J., Chua, J. H., & Chrisman, J. J. (2014). Ability and willingness as
sufﬁciency conditions for family-oriented particularistic behavior: Implications
for theory and empirical studies. Journal of Small Business Management, 52(2),
344–364.
Dijksterhuis, A., & van Knippenberg, A. (1998). The relation between perception and
behavior, or how to win a game of trivial pursuit. Journal of Personality and Social
Psychology, 74(4), 865–877.
Drucker, P. (1985). Innovation and entrepreneurship. New York, NY: Harper & Row.
Dunn, B. (1996). Family enterprises in the UK: A special sector? Family Business Review,
9(2), 139–155.
Dyer, W. G. (2003). The family: The missing variable in organizational research.
Entrepreneurship Theory & Practice, 27(4), 401–416.
Dyer, W. G., & Dyer, W. J. (2009). Putting the family into family business research.
Family Business Review, 22(3), 216–219.
F: Family Contro
 
l and
influence
I: Identificatio
 
n of famil y
member s wit h th e fir m
B: Bind ing  socia
 
l tie
 
s
E: Emotional attachment of
famil y member s
R: Renewal of famil y bonds
through dynastic succession
Investment
 
 in socia
 
l tie
 
s
(Cruz et  al.,
 
 2012)
Family firm
 
-
community  relat
 
ion
Family  member‘ s closenes
 
s to fir m (Birle
 
y, 
2002; Björnberg & Nicholson, 2012)
Family-firm
relation
Histor y of famil y bonds
(Zell
 
weger et  al.,
 
 2012)
FIBER Di mensions according to
Berrone et al.
 
 (2012
 
)
Dimension
 
s of SEW accordin
 
g to thi
 
s pape
 
r
Adaptabilit
 
y
(Björnberg & Nicholson, 2007)
Family infl uence
Intergenerational
 
 authorit
 
y
(Björnberg & Nicholson, 2007)
Family ownershi
 
p & manag
 
ement1
Fig. 1. FIBER Dimensions of SEW and dimensions of SEW in this article.
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx 
13

Evans, D. S. (1987). The relationship between ﬁrm growth, size, and age: Estimates for
100 manufacturing industries. Journal of Industrial Economics, 35(4), 567–581.
Field, A. P. (2011). Discovering statistics using SPSS (3rd ed.). Los Angeles: Sage.
Finkelstein, S., & Hambrick, D. C. (1990). Top-management-team tenure and organiza-
tional outcomes: The moderating role of managerial discretion. Administrative
Science Quarterly, 35(3), 484–503.
Fredrickson, J. W., & Iaquinto, A. L. (1989). Inertia and creeping rationality in strategic
decision processes. Academy of Management Journal, 32(3), 516–542.
Freeman, J. (1977). The population ecology of organizations. American Journal of
Sociology, 82(5), 929–964.
Gersick, K. E., Davis, J. A., Hampton, M. M., & Lansberg, I. (1997). Generation to
generation: Life cycles of the family business. Boston: Harvard Business School Press.
Gersick, K. E., Lansberg, I., Desjardins, M., & Dunn, B. (1999). Stages and transitions:
Managing change in the family business. Family Business Review, 12(4), 287–297.
Ghemawat, P. (1991). Commitment: The dynamic of strategy. New York: Free Press.
Glass, G. V., Peckham, P. D., & Sanders, J. R. (1972). Consequences of failure to meet
assumptions underlying the ﬁxed effects analyses of variance and covariance.
Review of Educational Research, 42(3), 237–288.
Go´mez-Mejı´a, L. R., Cruz, C., Berrone, P., & De Castro, J. (2011). The bind that ties:
Socioemotional wealth preservation in family ﬁrms. Academy of Management
Annals, 5(1), 653–707.
Go´mez-Mejı´a, L. R., Haynes, K. T., Nu´ n˜ez-Nickel, M., Jacobson, K. J., & Moyano-Fuentes, J.
(2007). Socioemotional wealth and business risks in family-controlled ﬁrms: Evi-
dence from Spanish olive oil mills. Administrative Science Quarterly, 52(1), 106–137.
Granovetter, M. S. (1973). The strength of weak ties. American Journal of Sociology,
78(6), 1360–1380.
Grotevant, H. D., & Carlson, C. I. (1989). Family assessment: A guide to methods and
measures. New York: Guilford Press.
Gudmundson, D., Tower, C. B., & Hartman, E. A. (2003). Innovation in small businesses:
Culture and ownership structure do matter. Journal of Developmental Entrepreneur-
ship, 8(1), 1–18.
Habbershon, T. G., & Williams, M. L. (1999). A resource-based framework for assessing
the strategic advantages of family ﬁrms. Family Business Review, 12(1), 1–25.
Hair, J. F., Black, B., Babin, B., Anderson, R. E., & Tatham, R. I. (2006). Multivariate data
analysis. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Hall, A., Melin, L., & Nordqvist, M. (2004). Entrepreneurship as radical change in the
family business: Exploring the role of cultural patterns. Family Business Review,
14(3), 193–208.
Hambrick, D. C., & Fukutomi, G. D. (1991). The seasons of a CEO’s tenure. Academy of
Management Review, 16(4), 719–742.
Hambrick, D. C., Geletkanycz, M. A., & Fredrickson, J. W. (1993). Top executive
commitment to the status quo: Some tests of its determinants. Strategic Manage-
ment Journal, 14(6), 401–418.
Handler, W. C. (1989). Methodological issues and considerations in studying family
businesses. Family Business Review, 2(3), 257–276.
Handler, W. C. (1992). The succession experience of the next generation. Family
Business Review, 5(3), 283–307.
Handler, W. C. (1994). Succession in family business: A review of the research. Family
Business Review, 7(2), 133–157.
Harveston, P. D., Davis, P. S., & Lyden, J. A. (1997). Succession planning in family
business: The impact of owner gender. Family Business Review, 10(4), 373–396.
Henderson, A. D., Miller, D., & Hambrick, D. C. (2006). How quickly do CEOs become
obsolete? Industry dynamism, CEO tenure, and company performance. Strategic
Management Journal, 27(5), 447–460.
Hirigoyen, G., & Labaki, R. (2012). The role of regret in the owner-manager decision-
making in the family business: A conceptual approach. Journal of Family Business
Strategy, 3(2), 118–126.
Hoy, F., & Sharma, P. (2010). Entrepreneurial family ﬁrms. New York, NY: Prentice Hall.
Hsu, L.-C., & Chang, H.-C. (2011). The role of behavioral strategic controls in family ﬁrm
innovation. Industry and Innovation, 18(7), 709–727.
James, W. (1890). Principles of psychology. New York: Holt.
Kammerlander, N., & Ganter, M. (in press). Attention-based view of family ﬁrm
adaptation to discontinuities: The role of non-ﬁnancial goals. Journal of Product
Innovation Management.
Keinz, P., & Pru¨gl, R. (2010). A user community-based approach to leveraging techno-
logical competences: An exploratory case study of a technology start-up from MIT.
Creativity and Innovation Management, 19(3), 269–289.
Kellermanns, F. W., Eddleston, K. A., Barnett, T., & Pearson, A. (2008). An exploratory
study of family member characteristics and involvement: Effects on entrepreneur-
ial behavior in the family ﬁrm. Family Business Review, 21(1), 1–14.
Kellermanns, F. W., Eddleston, K. A., Sarathy, R., & Murphy, F. (2012). Innovativeness
in family ﬁrms: A family inﬂuence perspective. Small Business Economics, 38(1),
85–101.
Kellermanns, F. W., Eddleston, K. A., & Zellweger, T. M. (2012). Extending the socio-
emotional wealth perspective: A look at the dark side. Entrepreneurship: Theory &
Practice, 36(6), 1175–1182.
Kepner, E. (1991). The family and the ﬁrm: A coevolutionary perspective. Family
Business Review, 4(4), 445–461.
Kohli, A. K., & Jaworski, B. J. (1990). Market orientation: The construct, research
propositions, and managerial implications. Journal of Marketing, 54(2), 1–18.
Ko¨nig, A., Kammerlander, N., & Enders, A. (2013). The family innovator’s dilemma: How
family inﬂuence affects the adoption of discontinuous technologies by incumbent
ﬁrms. Academy of Management Review, 38(3), 418–441.
Kotlar, J., & De Massis, A. (2013). Goal setting in family ﬁrms: Goal diversity, social
interactions, and collective commitment to family-centered goals. Entrepreneur-
ship: Theory & Practice, 37(6), 1263–1288.
Kotlar, J., De Massis, A., Frattini, F., Bianchi, M., & Fang, H. (2013). Technology acquisi-
tion in family and nonfamily ﬁrms: A longitudinal analysis of Spanish manufactur-
ing ﬁrms. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 30(6), 1073–1088.
Kumar, N., Stern, L. W., & Anderson, J. C. (1993). Conducting interorganizational
research using key informants. Academy of Management Journal, 36(6), 1633–1651.
La Porta, R., Lopez-de-Silanes, F., & Shleifer, A. (1999). Corporate ownership around the
world. Journal of Finance, LIV(2), 471–517.
Lansberg, I. (1988). The succession conspiracy. Family Business Review, 1(2), 119–143.
Le Breton-Miller, I., Miller, D., & Steier, L. P. (2004). Toward an integrative model of
effective FOB succession. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 28(4), 305–328.
Le Breton-Miller, I., & Miller, D. (2013). Socioemotional wealth across the family ﬁrm
life cycle: A commentary on ‘‘Family Business Survival and the Role of Boards’’.
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 37(6), 1391–1397.
Ling, Y., & Kellermanns, F. W. (2010). The effects of family ﬁrm speciﬁc sources of TMT
diversity: The moderating role of information exchange frequency. Journal of
Management Studies, 47(2), 322–344.
Litz, R. A., & Kleysen, R. F. (2001). Your old men shall dream dreams, your young men
shall see visions: Toward a theory of family ﬁrm innovation with help from the
Brubeck family. Family Business Review, 14(4), 335–352.
Llach, J., & Nordqvist, M. (2010). Innovation in family and non-family businesses: A
resource perspective. International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing, 2(3), 381–399.
Longenecker, J. G., & Schoen, J. E. (1978). Management succession in the family
business. Journal of Small Business Management, 16(3), 1–6.
Martı´nez-Ros, E., & Orﬁla-Sintes, F. (2012). Training plans, manager’s characteristics
and innovation in the accommodation industry. International Journal of Hospitality
Management, 31(3), 686–964.
Miller, D. (1991). Stale in the saddle: CEO tenure and the match between organization
and environment. Management Science, 37(1), 34–52.
Miller, D., Le Breton-Miller, I., & Lester, R. H. (2013). Family ﬁrm governance, strategic
conformity, and performance: Institutional vs. strategic perspectives. Organization
Science, 24(1), 189–209.
Miller, D., & Le Breton-Miller, I. (2014). Deconstructing Socioemotional Wealth. Entre-
preneurship Theory and Practice, 38(4), 713–720.
Miller, D., Le Breton-Miller, I., & Scholnick, B. (2008). Stewardship vs. stagnation: An
empirical comparison of small family and non-family businesses. Journal of Man-
agement Studies, 45(1), 51–78.
Miller, D., Steier, L., & Le Breton-Miller, I. (2003). Lost in time: Intergenerational
succession, change, and failure in family business. Journal of Business Venturing,
18(4), 513–531.
Milliken, F. J., Martins, L. L., & Morgan, H. (1998). Explaining organizational respon-
siveness to work-family issues: The role of human resource executives as issue
interpreters. Academy of Management Journal, 41(5), 580–592.
Mitchell, J. R., Hart, T. A., Valcea, S., & Townsend, D. M. (2009). Becoming the boss:
Discretion and postsuccession success in family ﬁrms. Entrepreneurship Theory and
Practice, 33(6), 1201–1218.
Molly, V., Laveren, E., & Deloof, M. (2010). Family business succession and its impact on
ﬁnancial structure and performance. Family Business Review, 23(2), 131–147.
Munari, F., Oriani, R., & Sobrero, M. (2010). The effects of owner identity and external
governance systems on R&D investments: A study of Western European ﬁrms.
Research Policy, 39(8), 1093–1104.
Mun˜oz-Bullo´n, F., & Sanchez-Bueno, M. J. (2011). The impact of family involvement
on the R&D intensity of publicly traded ﬁrms. Family Business Review, 24(1), 62–70.
Nahapiet, J., & Ghoshal, S. (1998). Social capital, intellectual capital, and the organiza-
tional advantage. Academy of Management Review, 23(2), 242–266.
Naldi, L., Cennamo, C., Corbetta, G., & Go´mez-Mejı´a, L. (2013). Preserving socioemo-
tional wealth in family ﬁrms: Asset or liability? The moderating role of business
context. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 37(6), 1341–1360.
Ng, T. W., Feldman, D. C., & Lam, S. S. (2010). Psychological contract breaches,
organizational commitment, and innovation-related behaviors: A latent growth
modeling approach. Journal of Applied Psychology, 95(4), 744.
Nicolau, J. L., & Santa-Marı´a, M. J. (2013). The effect of innovation on hotel market value.
International Journal of Hospitality Management, 32(1), 71–79.
Nunnally, J. C., & Bernstein, I. H. (1994). Psychometric theory (3rd ed.). New York:
McGraw-Hill.
Olson, D. H. (1988). The circumplex model of family systems VIII: Family assessment
and intervention. In D. H. Olson, C. S. Russell, & D. H. Sprenkle (Eds.), The circumplex
model: Systemic assessment and treatment of families. New York: Haworth.
Peters, M., & Buhalis, D. (2004). Family hotel businesses: Strategic planning and the
need for education and training. Education + Training, 46(8/9), 406–415.
Pfeffer, J., & Salancik, G. R. (1978). The external control of organizations: A resource
dependence perspective. New York: Harper & Row.
Pikkemaat, B. (2008). Innovation in small and medium-sized tourism enterprises
in Tyrol Austria. International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Innovation, 9(3),
187–197.
Pikkemaat, B., & Peters, M. (2006). Towards the measurement of innovation—A pilot
study in the small and medium sized hotel industry. Journal of Quality Assurance in
Hospitality & Tourism, 6(3–4), 89–112.
Pleininger, H. (2014). Familienbetriebe setzen 365 Milliarden s um. Wirtschafts Blatt
Retrieved from http://wirtschaftsblatt.at/home/events/familienunternehmen/
1570141/Familienbetriebe-setzen-365-Milliarden-um
Podsakoff, P. M., MacKenzie, S. B., Jeong-Yeon, L., & Podsakoff, N. P. (2003). Common
method biases in behavioral research: A critical review of the literature and
recommended remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88(5), 879.
Poetz, M. K., & Pru¨ gl, R. (2010). Crossing domain-speciﬁc boundaries in search of
innovation: Exploring the potential of pyramiding. Journal of Product Innovation
Management, 27(6), 897–914.
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx
14

Porter, M. E. (1990). The competitive advantage of nations. New York [u.a.] Free Press.
Powell, T. C. (1996). Research notes and communications. How much does industry
matter? An alternative empirical test. Strategic Management Journal, 17(4), 323–334.
Prahalad, C. K., & Bettis, R. A. (1986). The dominant logic: A new linkage between
diversity and performance. Strategic Management Journal, 7(6), 485–501.
Quigley, T. J., & Hambrick, D. C. (2012). When the former CEO stays on as board chair:
Effects on successor discretion, strategic change, and performance. Strategic Man-
agement Journal, 33(7), 834–859.
Romanelli, E., & Tushman, M. L. (1994). Organizational transformation as punctuated
equilibrium: 
An 
empirical 
test. 
Academy 
of 
Management 
Journal, 
37(5),
1141–1166.
Rubenson, G. C., & Gupta, A. K. (1996). The initial succession: A contingency model of
founder tenure. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 21(2), 21–35.
Salvato, C. (2004). Predictors of entrepreneurship in family ﬁrms. Journal of Private
Equity, 7(3), 68–76.
Schumpeter, J. A. (1934). The theory of economic development (14th print. ed.). New
Brunswick, NJ [u.a.] Transaction Publ..
Seidler, J. (1974). On using informants: A technique for collecting quantitative data and
controlling measurement error in organization analysis. American Sociological
Review, 39(6), 816–831.
Sharma, P., Chrisman, J. J., & Chua, J. H. (1997). Strategic management of the family
business: Past research and future challenges. Family Business Review, 10(1),
1–35.
Sharma, P., Chrisman, J. J., Pablo, A. L., & Chua, J. H. (2001). Determinants of initial
satisfaction with the succession process in family ﬁrms: A conceptual model.
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 25(3), 17–36.
Smeral, E., & Witt, S. F. (1996). Econometric forecasts of tourism demand to 2005.
Annals of Tourism Research, 23(4), 891–907.
Spriggs, M., Yu, A., Deeds, D., & Sorenson, R. L. (2013). Too many cooks in the kitchen
innovative capacity, collaborative network orientation, and performance in small
family businesses. Family Business Review, 26(1), 32–50.
Sternberg, L., & Lu¨ ckgen, I. (2005). Global entrepreneurship monitor – German report.
Germany: Cologne.
Sundbo, J., Orﬁla-Sintes, F., & Sørensen, F. (2007). The innovative behaviour of
tourism ﬁrms—Comparative studies of Denmark and Spain. Research Policy,
36(1), 88–106.
Sydow, J., Schreyo¨gg, G., & Koch, J. (2009). Organizational path dependence: Opening
the black box. Academy of Management Review, 34(4), 689–709.
Tabachnick, B. G., & Fidell, L. S. (1996). Using Multivariate Statistics. New York:
HarperCollins.
Tagiuri, R., & Davis, J. A. (1992). On the goals of successful family companies. Family
Business Review, 5(1), 43–62.
Teal, E. J., Upton, N., & Seaman, S. L. (2003). A comparative analysis of strategic
marketing practices of high-growth US family and non-family ﬁrms. Journal of
Developmental Entrepreneurship, 8(2), 177–195.
Teece, D. J. (2006). Reﬂections on ‘‘proﬁting from innovation’’. Research Policy, 35(8),
1131–1146.
Thornton, P. H., Ocasio, W., & Lounsbury, M. (2012). The institutional logics perspective:
A new approach to culture, structure and process. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Tripsas, M., & Gavetti, G. (2000). Capabilities, cognition, and inertia: Evidence from
digital imaging. Strategic Management Journal, 21(10–11), 1147–1161.
Uhlaner, L. M. (2006). Business family as a team: Underlying force for sustained
competitive advantage. In P. Z. Poutziouris, K. X. Smyrnios, & S. B. Klein (Eds.),
Handbook of research on family business (pp. 125–144). Cheltenham, England:
Edward Elgar.
Vandekerkhof, P., Steijvers, T., Hendriks, W., & Voordeckers, W. (in press). The effect of
organizational characteristics on the appointment of nonfamily managers in
private family ﬁrms: The moderating role of socioemotional wealth. Family
Business Review.
Villalonga, B., & Amit, R. (2009). How are US family ﬁrms controlled? Review of Financial
Studies, 22(8), 3047–3091.
Volery, T., Bergmann, H., Gruber, M., Haour, G., & Leleux, B. (2007). Global Entrepreneur-
ship Monitor – Swiss executive report. St. Gallen, Switzerland University of St. Gallen.
von Schlippe, A., & Frank, H. (2013). The theory of social systems as a framework for
understanding family businesses. Family Relations, 63(3), 384–398.
Walsh, F. (1998). Strengthening family resilience. New York: Guilford Press.
Westhead, P., Howorth, C., & Cowling, M. (2002). Ownership and management issues in
ﬁrst generation and multi-generation family ﬁrms. Entrepreneurship & Regional
Development, 14(3), 247–269.
Zahra, S. A. (2005). Entrepreneurial risk taking in family ﬁrms. Family Business Review,
18(1), 23–40.
Zahra, S. A., Hayton, J. C., & Salvato, C. (2004). Entrepreneurship in family vs. non-family
ﬁrms: A resource-based analysis 
of the effect of organizational 
culture.
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 28(4), 363–381.
Zahra, S. A., Neubaum, D. O., & Huse, M. (2000). Entrepreneurship in medium-size
companies: Exploring the effects of ownership and governance systems. Journal of
Management, 26(5), 947–976.
Zajonc, R. B. (2001). Mere exposure: A gateway to the subliminal. Current Directions in
Psychological Science, 10(6), 224–228.
Zellweger, T. M., & Astrachan, J. H. (2008). On the emotional value of owning a ﬁrm.
Family Business Review, 21(4), 347–363.
Zellweger, T. M., Kellermanns, F. W., Chrisman, J. J., & Chua, J. H. (2012). Family control
and family ﬁrm valuation by family CEOs: The importance of intentions for
transgenerational control. Organization Science, 23(3), 851–868.
G Model
JFBS-157; No. of Pages 15
Please cite this article in press as: Hauck, J., & Pru¨gl, R. Innovation activities during intra-family leadership succession in family ﬁrms: An
empirical study from a socioemotional wealth perspective. Journal of Family Business Strategy (2015), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.jfbs.2014.11.002
J. Hauck, R. Pru¨gl / Journal of Family Business Strategy xxx (2015) xxx–xxx 
15
